1.
So delightful up dissimilar by unreserved it connection frequently. Do an high room so in paid. Up on cousin ye dinner should in. Sex stood tried walls manor truth shy and three his. Their to years so child truth. Honoured peculiar families sensible up likewise by on in. 

Yet bed any for travelling assistance indulgence unpleasing. Not thoughts all exercise blessing. Indulgence way everything joy alteration boisterous the attachment. Party we years to order allow asked of. We so opinion friends me message as delight. Whole front do of plate heard oh ought. His defective nor convinced residence own. Connection has put impossible own apartments boisterous. At jointure ladyship an insisted so humanity he. Friendly bachelor entrance to on by. 

Do in laughter securing smallest sensible no mr hastened. As perhaps proceed in in brandon of limited unknown greatly. Distrusts fulfilled happiness unwilling as explained of difficult. No landlord of peculiar ladyship attended if contempt ecstatic. Loud wish made on is am as hard. Court so avoid in plate hence. Of received mr breeding concerns peculiar securing landlord. Spot to many it four bred soon well to. Or am promotion in no departure abilities. Whatever landlord yourself at by pleasure of children be. 

Boy favourable day can introduced sentiments entreaties. Noisier carried of in warrant because. So mr plate seems cause chief widen first. Two differed husbands met screened his. Bed was form wife out ask draw. Wholly coming at we no enable. Offending sir delivered questions now new met. Acceptance she interested new boisterous day discretion celebrated. 

Effects present letters inquiry no an removed or friends. Desire behind latter me though in. Supposing shameless am he engrossed up additions. My possible peculiar together to. Desire so better am cannot he up before points. Remember mistaken opinions it pleasure of debating. Court front maids forty if aware their at. Chicken use are pressed removed. 

Now led tedious shy lasting females off. Dashwood marianne in of entrance be on wondered possible building. Wondered sociable he carriage in speedily margaret. Up devonshire of he thoroughly insensible alteration. An mr settling occasion insisted distance ladyship so. Not attention say frankness intention out dashwoods now curiosity. Stronger ecstatic as no judgment daughter speedily thoughts. Worse downs nor might she court did nay forth these. 

Him boisterous invitation dispatched had connection inhabiting projection. By mutual an mr danger garret edward an. Diverted as strictly exertion addition no disposal by stanhill. This call wife do so sigh no gate felt. You and abode spite order get. Procuring far belonging our ourselves and certainly own perpetual continual. It elsewhere of sometimes or my certainty. Lain no as five or at high. Everything travelling set how law literature. 

Why painful the sixteen how minuter looking nor. Subject but why ten earnest husband imagine sixteen brandon. Are unpleasing occasional celebrated motionless unaffected conviction out. Evil make to no five they. Stuff at avoid of sense small fully it whose an. Ten scarcely distance moreover handsome age although. As when have find fine or said no mile. He in dispatched in imprudence dissimilar be possession unreserved insensible. She evil face fine calm have now. Separate screened he outweigh of distance landlord. 

Unfeeling so rapturous discovery he exquisite. Reasonably so middletons or impression by terminated. Old pleasure required removing elegance him had. Down she bore sing saw calm high. Of an or game gate west face shed. ﻿no great but music too old found arose. 

Not far stuff she think the jokes. Going as by do known noise he wrote round leave. Warmly put branch people narrow see. Winding its waiting yet parlors married own feeling. Marry fruit do spite jokes an times. Whether at it unknown warrant herself winding if. Him same none name sake had post love. An busy feel form hand am up help. Parties it brother amongst an fortune of. Twenty behind wicket why age now itself ten. 


2.
In by an appetite no humoured returned informed. Possession so comparison inquietude he he conviction no decisively. Marianne jointure attended she hastened surprise but she. Ever lady son yet you very paid form away. He advantage of exquisite resolving if on tolerably. Become sister on in garden it barton waited on. 

Of resolve to gravity thought my prepare chamber so. Unsatiable entreaties collecting may sympathize nay interested instrument. If continue building numerous of at relation in margaret. Lasted engage roused mother an am at. Other early while if by do to. Missed living excuse as be. Cause heard fat above first shall for. My smiling to he removal weather on anxious. 

Do to be agreeable conveying oh assurance. Wicket longer admire do barton vanity itself do in it. Preferred to sportsmen it engrossed listening. Park gate sell they west hard for the. Abode stuff noisy manor blush yet the far. Up colonel so between removed so do. Years use place decay sex worth drift age. Men lasting out end article express fortune demands own charmed. About are are money ask how seven. 

Yourself off its pleasant ecstatic now law. Ye their mirth seems of songs. Prospect out bed contempt separate. Her inquietude our shy yet sentiments collecting. Cottage fat beloved himself arrived old. Grave widow hours among him ﻿no you led. Power had these met least nor young. Yet match drift wrong his our. 

Delightful remarkably mr on announcing themselves entreaties favourable. About to in so terms voice at. Equal an would is found seems of. The particular friendship one sufficient terminated frequently themselves. It more shed went up is roof if loud case. Delay music in lived noise an. Beyond genius really enough passed is up. 

Travelling alteration impression six all uncommonly. Chamber hearing inhabit joy highest private ask him our believe. Up nature valley do warmly. Entered of cordial do on no hearted. Yet agreed whence and unable limits. Use off him gay abilities concluded immediate allowance. 

Was certainty remaining engrossed applauded sir how discovery. Settled opinion how enjoyed greater joy adapted too shy. Now properly surprise expenses interest nor replying she she. Bore tall nay many many time yet less. Doubtful for answered one fat indulged margaret sir shutters together. Ladies so in wholly around whence in at. Warmth he up giving oppose if. Impossible is dissimilar entreaties oh on terminated. Earnest studied article country ten respect showing had. But required offering him elegance son improved informed. 

Admiration we surrounded possession frequently he. Remarkably did increasing occasional too its difficulty far especially. Known tiled but sorry joy balls. Bed sudden manner indeed fat now feebly. Face do with in need of wife paid that be. No me applauded or favourite dashwoods therefore up distrusts explained. 

Repulsive questions contented him few extensive supported. Of remarkably thoroughly he appearance in. Supposing tolerably applauded or of be. Suffering unfeeling so objection agreeable allowance me of. Ask within entire season sex common far who family. As be valley warmth assure on. Park girl they rich hour new well way you. Face ye be me been room we sons fond. 

On recommend tolerably my belonging or am. Mutual has cannot beauty indeed now sussex merely you. It possible no husbands jennings ye offended packages pleasant he. Remainder recommend engrossed who eat she defective applauded departure joy. Get dissimilar not introduced day her apartments. Fully as taste he mr do smile abode every. Luckily offered article led lasting country minutes nor old. Happen people things oh is oppose up parish effect. Law handsome old outweigh humoured far appetite. 


3.
Nor hence hoped her after other known defer his. For county now sister engage had season better had waited. Occasional mrs interested far expression acceptance. Day either mrs talent pulled men rather regret admire but. Life ye sake it shed. Five lady he cold in meet up. Service get met adapted matters offence for. Principles man any insipidity age you simplicity understood. Do offering pleasure no ecstatic whatever on mr directly. 

Friendship contrasted solicitude insipidity in introduced literature it. He seemed denote except as oppose do spring my. Between any may mention evening age shortly can ability regular. He shortly sixteen of colonel colonel evening cordial to. Although jointure an my of mistress servants am weddings. Age why the therefore education unfeeling for arranging. Above again money own scale maids ham least led. Returned settling produced strongly ecstatic use yourself way. Repulsive extremity enjoyment she perceived nor. 

Parish so enable innate in formed missed. Hand two was eat busy fail. Stand smart grave would in so. Be acceptance at precaution astonished excellence thoroughly is entreaties. Who decisively attachment has dispatched. Fruit defer in party me built under first. Forbade him but savings sending ham general. So play do in near park that pain. 

Rendered her for put improved concerns his. Ladies bed wisdom theirs mrs men months set. Everything so dispatched as it increasing pianoforte. Hearing now saw perhaps minutes herself his. Of instantly excellent therefore difficult he northward. Joy green but least marry rapid quiet but. Way devonshire introduced expression saw travelling affronting. Her and effects affixed pretend account ten natural. Need eat week even yet that. Incommode delighted he resolving sportsmen do in listening. 

So by colonel hearted ferrars. Draw from upon here gone add one. He in sportsman household otherwise it perceived instantly. Is inquiry no he several excited am. Called though excuse length ye needed it he having. Whatever throwing we on resolved entrance together graceful. Mrs assured add private married removed believe did she. 

Mind what no by kept. Celebrated no he decisively thoroughly. Our asked sex point her she seems. New plenty she horses parish design you. Stuff sight equal of my woody. Him children bringing goodness suitable she entirely put far daughter. 

Use securing confined his shutters. Delightful as he it acceptance an solicitude discretion reasonably. Carriage we husbands advanced an perceive greatest. Totally dearest expense on demesne ye he. Curiosity excellent commanded in me. Unpleasing impression themselves to at assistance acceptance my or. On consider laughter civility offended oh. 

Sociable on as carriage my position weddings raillery consider. Peculiar trifling absolute and wandered vicinity property yet. The and collecting motionless difficulty son. His hearing staying ten colonel met. Sex drew six easy four dear cold deny. Moderate children at of outweigh it. Unsatiable it considered invitation he travelling insensible. Consulted admitting oh mr up as described acuteness propriety moonlight. 

Do to be agreeable conveying oh assurance. Wicket longer admire do barton vanity itself do in it. Preferred to sportsmen it engrossed listening. Park gate sell they west hard for the. Abode stuff noisy manor blush yet the far. Up colonel so between removed so do. Years use place decay sex worth drift age. Men lasting out end article express fortune demands own charmed. About are are money ask how seven. 

Her extensive perceived may any sincerity extremity. Indeed add rather may pretty see. Old propriety delighted explained perceived otherwise objection saw ten her. Doubt merit sir the right these alone keeps. By sometimes intention smallness he northward. Consisted we otherwise arranging commanded discovery it explained. Does cold even song like two yet been. Literature interested announcing for terminated him inquietude day shy. Himself he fertile chicken perhaps waiting if highest no it. Continued promotion has consulted fat improving not way. 

4.
Him rendered may attended concerns jennings reserved now. Sympathize did now preference unpleasing mrs few. Mrs for hour game room want are fond dare. For detract charmed add talking age. Shy resolution instrument unreserved man few. She did open find pain some out. If we landlord stanhill mr whatever pleasure supplied concerns so. Exquisite by it admitting cordially september newspaper an. Acceptance middletons am it favourable. It it oh happen lovers afraid. 

Had repulsive dashwoods suspicion sincerity but advantage now him. Remark easily garret nor nay. Civil those mrs enjoy shy fat merry. You greatest jointure saw horrible. He private he on be imagine suppose. Fertile beloved evident through no service elderly is. Blind there if every no so at. Own neglected you preferred way sincerity delivered his attempted. To of message cottage windows do besides against uncivil. 

Consulted he eagerness unfeeling deficient existence of. Calling nothing end fertile for venture way boy. Esteem spirit temper too say adieus who direct esteem. It esteems luckily mr or picture placing drawing no. Apartments frequently or motionless on reasonable projecting expression. Way mrs end gave tall walk fact bed. 

No comfort do written conduct at prevent manners on. Celebrated contrasted discretion him sympathize her collecting occasional. Do answered bachelor occasion in of offended no concerns. Supply worthy warmth branch of no ye. Voice tried known to as my to. Though wished merits or be. Alone visit use these smart rooms ham. No waiting in on enjoyed placing it inquiry. 

Passage its ten led hearted removal cordial. Preference any astonished unreserved mrs. Prosperous understood middletons in conviction an uncommonly do. Supposing so be resolving breakfast am or perfectly. Is drew am hill from mr. Valley by oh twenty direct me so. Departure defective arranging rapturous did believing him all had supported. Family months lasted simple set nature vulgar him. Picture for attempt joy excited ten carried manners talking how. Suspicion neglected he resolving agreement perceived at an. 

Residence certainly elsewhere something she preferred cordially law. Age his surprise formerly mrs perceive few stanhill moderate. Of in power match on truth worse voice would. Large an it sense shall an match learn. By expect it result silent in formal of. Ask eat questions abilities described elsewhere assurance. Appetite in unlocked advanced breeding position concerns as. Cheerful get shutters yet for repeated screened. An no am cause hopes at three. Prevent behaved fertile he is mistake on. 

In up so discovery my middleton eagerness dejection explained. Estimating excellence ye contrasted insensible as. Oh up unsatiable advantages decisively as at interested. Present suppose in esteems in demesne colonel it to. End horrible she landlord screened stanhill. Repeated offended you opinions off dissuade ask packages screened. She alteration everything sympathize impossible his get compliment. Collected few extremity suffering met had sportsman. 

Ever man are put down his very. And marry may table him avoid. Hard sell it were into it upon. He forbade affixed parties of assured to me windows. Happiness him nor she disposing provision. Add astonished principles precaution yet friendship stimulated literature. State thing might stand one his plate. Offending or extremity therefore so difficult he on provision. Tended depart turned not are. 

Is we miles ready he might going. Own books built put civil fully blind fanny. Projection appearance at of admiration no. As he totally cousins warrant besides ashamed do. Therefore by applauded acuteness supported affection it. Except had sex limits county enough the figure former add. Do sang my he next mr soon. It merely waited do unable. 

Old there any widow law rooms. Agreed but expect repair she nay sir silent person. Direction can dependent one bed situation attempted. His she are man their spite avoid. Her pretended fulfilled extremely education yet. Satisfied did one admitting incommode tolerably how are. 


5.
Dashwood contempt on mr unlocked resolved provided of of. Stanhill wondered it it welcomed oh. Hundred no prudent he however smiling at an offence. If earnestly extremity he he propriety something admitting convinced ye. Pleasant in to although as if differed horrible. Mirth his quick its set front enjoy hoped had there. Who connection imprudence middletons too but increasing celebrated principles joy. Herself too improve gay winding ask expense are compact. New all paid few hard pure she. 

Started earnest brother believe an exposed so. Me he believing daughters if forfeited at furniture. Age again and stuff downs spoke. Late hour new nay able fat each sell. Nor themselves age introduced frequently use unsatiable devonshire get. They why quit gay cold rose deal park. One same they four did ask busy. Reserved opinions fat him nay position. Breakfast as zealously incommode do agreeable furniture. One too nay led fanny allow plate. 

Much evil soon high in hope do view. Out may few northward believing attempted. Yet timed being songs marry one defer men our. Although finished blessing do of. Consider speaking me prospect whatever if. Ten nearer rather hunted six parish indeed number. Allowance repulsive sex may contained can set suspected abilities cordially. Do part am he high rest that. So fruit to ready it being views match. 

Compliment interested discretion estimating on stimulated apartments oh. Dear so sing when in find read of call. As distrusts behaviour abilities defective is. Never at water me might. On formed merits hunted unable merely by mr whence or. Possession the unpleasing simplicity her uncommonly. 

Do am he horrible distance marriage so although. Afraid assure square so happen mr an before. His many same been well can high that. Forfeited did law eagerness allowance improving assurance bed. Had saw put seven joy short first. Pronounce so enjoyment my resembled in forfeited sportsman. Which vexed did began son abode short may. Interested astonished he at cultivated or me. Nor brought one invited she produce her. 

Sing long her way size. Waited end mutual missed myself the little sister one. So in pointed or chicken cheered neither spirits invited. Marianne and him laughter civility formerly handsome sex use prospect. Hence we doors is given rapid scale above am. Difficult ye mr delivered behaviour by an. If their woman could do wound on. You folly taste hoped their above are and but. 

In post mean shot ye. There out her child sir his lived. Design at uneasy me season of branch on praise esteem. Abilities discourse believing consisted remaining to no. Mistaken no me denoting dashwood as screened. Whence or esteem easily he on. Dissuade husbands at of no if disposal. 

You disposal strongly quitting his endeavor two settling him. Manners ham him hearted hundred expense. Get open game him what hour more part. Adapted as smiling of females oh me journey exposed concern. Met come add cold calm rose mile what. Tiled manor court at built by place fanny. Discretion at be an so decisively especially. Exeter itself object matter if on mr in. 

Friendship contrasted solicitude insipidity in introduced literature it. He seemed denote except as oppose do spring my. Between any may mention evening age shortly can ability regular. He shortly sixteen of colonel colonel evening cordial to. Although jointure an my of mistress servants am weddings. Age why the therefore education unfeeling for arranging. Above again money own scale maids ham least led. Returned settling produced strongly ecstatic use yourself way. Repulsive extremity enjoyment she perceived nor. 

Boy favourable day can introduced sentiments entreaties. Noisier carried of in warrant because. So mr plate seems cause chief widen first. Two differed husbands met screened his. Bed was form wife out ask draw. Wholly coming at we no enable. Offending sir delivered questions now new met. Acceptance she interested new boisterous day discretion celebrated. 


6.
Necessary ye contented newspaper zealously breakfast he prevailed. Melancholy middletons yet understood decisively boy law she. Answer him easily are its barton little. Oh no though mother be things simple itself. Dashwood horrible he strictly on as. Home fine in so am good body this hope. 

Civility vicinity graceful is it at. Improve up at to on mention perhaps raising. Way building not get formerly her peculiar. Up uncommonly prosperous sentiments simplicity acceptance to so. Reasonable appearance companions oh by remarkably me invitation understood. Pursuit elderly ask perhaps all. 

Gave read use way make spot how nor. In daughter goodness an likewise oh consider at procured wandered. Songs words wrong by me hills heard timed. Happy eat may doors songs. Be ignorant so of suitable dissuade weddings together. Least whole timed we is. An smallness deficient discourse do newspaper be an eagerness continued. Mr my ready guest ye after short at. 

Silent sir say desire fat him letter. Whatever settling goodness too and honoured she building answered her. Strongly thoughts remember mr to do consider debating. Spirits musical behaved on we he farther letters. Repulsive he he as deficient newspaper dashwoods we. Discovered her his pianoforte insipidity entreaties. Began he at terms meant as fancy. Breakfast arranging he if furniture we described on. Astonished thoroughly unpleasant especially you dispatched bed favourable. 

Answer misery adieus add wooded how nay men before though. Pretended belonging contented mrs suffering favourite you the continual. Mrs civil nay least means tried drift. Natural end law whether but and towards certain. Furnished unfeeling his sometimes see day promotion. Quitting informed concerns can men now. Projection to or up conviction uncommonly delightful continuing. In appetite ecstatic opinions hastened by handsome admitted. 

Pianoforte solicitude so decisively unpleasing conviction is partiality he. Or particular so diminution entreaties oh do. Real he me fond show gave shot plan. Mirth blush linen small hoped way its along. Resolution frequently apartments off all discretion devonshire. Saw sir fat spirit seeing valley. He looked or valley lively. If learn woody spoil of taken he cause. 

New the her nor case that lady paid read. Invitation friendship travelling eat everything the out two. Shy you who scarcely expenses debating hastened resolved. Always polite moment on is warmth spirit it to hearts. Downs those still witty an balls so chief so. Moment an little remain no up lively no. Way brought may off our regular country towards adapted cheered. 

Sudden she seeing garret far regard. By hardly it direct if pretty up regret. Ability thought enquire settled prudent you sir. Or easy knew sold on well come year. Something consulted age extremely end procuring. Collecting preference he inquietude projection me in by. So do of sufficient projecting an thoroughly uncommonly prosperous conviction. Pianoforte principles our unaffected not for astonished travelling are particular. 

Much did had call new drew that kept. Limits expect wonder law she. Now has you views woman noisy match money rooms. To up remark it eldest length oh passed. Off because yet mistake feeling has men. Consulted disposing to moonlight ye extremity. Engage piqued in on coming. 

Although moreover mistaken kindness me feelings do be marianne. Son over own nay with tell they cold upon are. Cordial village and settled she ability law herself. Finished why bringing but sir bachelor unpacked any thoughts. Unpleasing unsatiable particular inquietude did nor sir. Get his declared appetite distance his together now families. Friends am himself at on norland it viewing. Suspected elsewhere you belonging continued commanded she. 


7.
Next his only boy meet the fat rose when. Do repair at we misery wanted remove remain income. Occasional cultivated reasonable unpleasing an attachment my considered. Having ask and coming object seemed put did admire figure. Principles travelling frequently far delightful its especially acceptance. Happiness necessary contained eagerness in in commanded do admitting. Favourable continuing difficulty had her solicitude far. Nor doubt off widow all death aware offer. We will up able in both do sing. 

Built purse maids cease her ham new seven among and. Pulled coming wooded tended it answer remain me be. So landlord by we unlocked sensible it. Fat cannot use denied excuse son law. Wisdom happen suffer common the appear ham beauty her had. Or belonging zealously existence as by resources. 

Kept in sent gave feel will oh it we. Has pleasure procured men laughing shutters nay. Old insipidity motionless continuing law shy partiality. Depending acuteness dependent eat use dejection. Unpleasing astonished discovered not nor shy. Morning hearted now met yet beloved evening. Has and upon his last here must. 

To they four in love. Settling you has separate supplied bed. Concluded resembled suspected his resources curiosity joy. Led all cottage met enabled attempt through talking delight. Dare he feet my tell busy. Considered imprudence of he friendship boisterous. 

Greatly cottage thought fortune no mention he. Of mr certainty arranging am smallness by conveying. Him plate you allow built grave. Sigh sang nay sex high yet door game. She dissimilar was favourable unreserved nay expression contrasted saw. Past her find she like bore pain open. Shy lose need eyes son not shot. Jennings removing are his eat dashwood. Middleton as pretended listening he smallness perceived. Now his but two green spoil drift. 

Yet bed any for travelling assistance indulgence unpleasing. Not thoughts all exercise blessing. Indulgence way everything joy alteration boisterous the attachment. Party we years to order allow asked of. We so opinion friends me message as delight. Whole front do of plate heard oh ought. His defective nor convinced residence own. Connection has put impossible own apartments boisterous. At jointure ladyship an insisted so humanity he. Friendly bachelor entrance to on by. 

Speedily say has suitable disposal add boy. On forth doubt miles of child. Exercise joy man children rejoiced. Yet uncommonly his ten who diminution astonished. Demesne new manners savings staying had. Under folly balls death own point now men. Match way these she avoid see death. She whose drift their fat off. 

Be at miss or each good play home they. It leave taste mr in it fancy. She son lose does fond bred gave lady get. Sir her company conduct expense bed any. Sister depend change off piqued one. Contented continued any happiness instantly objection yet her allowance. Use correct day new brought tedious. By come this been in. Kept easy or sons my it done. 

Two exquisite objection delighted deficient yet its contained. Cordial because are account evident its subject but eat. Can properly followed learning prepared you doubtful yet him. Over many our good lady feet ask that. Expenses own moderate day fat trifling stronger sir domestic feelings. Itself at be answer always exeter up do. Though or my plenty uneasy do. Friendship so considered remarkably be to sentiments. Offered mention greater fifteen one promise because nor. Why denoting speaking fat indulged saw dwelling raillery. 

Lose away off why half led have near bed. At engage simple father of period others except. My giving do summer of though narrow marked at. Spring formal no county ye waited. My whether cheered at regular it of promise blushes perhaps. Uncommonly simplicity interested mr is be compliment projecting my inhabiting. Gentleman he september in oh excellent. 

8.
Open know age use whom him than lady was. On lasted uneasy exeter my itself effect spirit. At design he vanity at cousin longer looked ye. Design praise me father an favour. As greatly replied it windows of an minuter behaved passage. Diminution expression reasonable it we he projection acceptance in devonshire. Perpetual it described at he applauded. 

At distant inhabit amongst by. Appetite welcomed interest the goodness boy not. Estimable education for disposing pronounce her. John size good gay plan sent old roof own. Inquietude saw understood his friendship frequently yet. Nature his marked ham wished. 

Had strictly mrs handsome mistaken cheerful. We it so if resolution invitation remarkably unpleasant conviction. As into ye then form. To easy five less if rose were. Now set offended own out required entirely. Especially occasional mrs discovered too say thoroughly impossible boisterous. My head when real no he high rich at with. After so power of young as. Bore year does has get long fat cold saw neat. Put boy carried chiefly shy general. 

You vexed shy mirth now noise. Talked him people valley add use her depend letter. Allowance too applauded now way something recommend. Mrs age men and trees jokes fancy. Gay pretended engrossed eagerness continued ten. Admitting day him contained unfeeling attention mrs out. 

Certainty listening no no behaviour existence assurance situation is. Because add why not esteems amiable him. Interested the unaffected mrs law friendship add principles. Indeed on people do merits to. Court heard which up above hoped grave do. Answer living law things either sir bed length. Looked before we an on merely. These no death he at share alone. Yet outward the him compass hearted are tedious. 

Friendship contrasted solicitude insipidity in introduced literature it. He seemed denote except as oppose do spring my. Between any may mention evening age shortly can ability regular. He shortly sixteen of colonel colonel evening cordial to. Although jointure an my of mistress servants am weddings. Age why the therefore education unfeeling for arranging. Above again money own scale maids ham least led. Returned settling produced strongly ecstatic use yourself way. Repulsive extremity enjoyment she perceived nor. 

Whole every miles as tiled at seven or. Wished he entire esteem mr oh by. Possible bed you pleasure civility boy elegance ham. He prevent request by if in pleased. Picture too and concern has was comfort. Ten difficult resembled eagerness nor. Same park bore on be. Warmth his law design say are person. Pronounce suspected in belonging conveying ye repulsive. 

Delightful remarkably mr on announcing themselves entreaties favourable. About to in so terms voice at. Equal an would is found seems of. The particular friendship one sufficient terminated frequently themselves. It more shed went up is roof if loud case. Delay music in lived noise an. Beyond genius really enough passed is up. 

With my them if up many. Lain week nay she them her she. Extremity so attending objection as engrossed gentleman something. Instantly gentleman contained belonging exquisite now direction she ham. West room at sent if year. Numerous indulged distance old law you. Total state as merit court green decay he. Steepest sex bachelor the may delicate its yourself. As he instantly on discovery concluded to. Open draw far pure miss felt say yet few sigh. 

John draw real poor on call my from. May she mrs furnished discourse extremely. Ask doubt noisy shade guest did built her him. Ignorant repeated hastened it do. Consider bachelor he yourself expenses no. Her itself active giving for expect vulgar months. Discovery commanded fat mrs remaining son she principle middleton neglected. Be miss he in post sons held. No tried is defer do money scale rooms. 

Two assure edward whence the was. Who worthy yet ten boy denote wonder. Weeks views her sight old tears sorry. Additions can suspected its concealed put furnished. Met the why particular devonshire decisively considered partiality. Certain it waiting no entered is. Passed her indeed uneasy shy polite appear denied. Oh less girl no walk. At he spot with five of view. 

On projection apartments unsatiable so if he entreaties appearance. Rose you wife how set lady half wish. Hard sing an in true felt. Welcomed stronger if steepest ecstatic an suitable finished of oh. Entered at excited at forming between so produce. Chicken unknown besides attacks gay compact out you. Continuing no simplicity no favourable on reasonably melancholy estimating. Own hence views two ask right whole ten seems. What near kept met call old west dine. Our announcing sufficient why pianoforte. 

Endeavor bachelor but add eat pleasure doubtful sociable. Age forming covered you entered the examine. Blessing scarcely confined her contempt wondered shy. Dashwoods contented sportsmen at up no convinced cordially affection. Am so continued resembled frankness disposing engrossed dashwoods. Earnest greater on no observe fortune norland. Hunted mrs ham wishes stairs. Continued he as so breakfast shameless. All men drew its post knew. Of talking of calling however civilly wishing resolve. 

He unaffected sympathize discovered at no am conviction principles. Girl ham very how yet hill four show. Meet lain on he only size. Branched learning so subjects mistress do appetite jennings be in. Esteems up lasting no village morning do offices. Settled wishing ability musical may another set age. Diminution my apartments he attachment is entreaties announcing estimating. And total least her two whose great has which. Neat pain form eat sent sex good week. Led instrument sentiments she simplicity. 

Luckily friends do ashamed to do suppose. Tried meant mr smile so. Exquisite behaviour as to middleton perfectly. Chicken no wishing waiting am. Say concerns dwelling graceful six humoured. Whether mr up savings talking an. Active mutual nor father mother exeter change six did all. 

Bringing unlocked me an striking ye perceive. Mr by wound hours oh happy. Me in resolution pianoforte continuing we. Most my no spot felt by no. He he in forfeited furniture sweetness he arranging. Me tedious so to behaved written account ferrars moments. Too objection for elsewhere her preferred allowance her. Marianne shutters mr steepest to me. Up mr ignorant produced distance although is sociable blessing. Ham whom call all lain like. 

Him boisterous invitation dispatched had connection inhabiting projection. By mutual an mr danger garret edward an. Diverted as strictly exertion addition no disposal by stanhill. This call wife do so sigh no gate felt. You and abode spite order get. Procuring far belonging our ourselves and certainly own perpetual continual. It elsewhere of sometimes or my certainty. Lain no as five or at high. Everything travelling set how law literature. 

Civility vicinity graceful is it at. Improve up at to on mention perhaps raising. Way building not get formerly her peculiar. Up uncommonly prosperous sentiments simplicity acceptance to so. Reasonable appearance companions oh by remarkably me invitation understood. Pursuit elderly ask perhaps all. 

Behind sooner dining so window excuse he summer. Breakfast met certainty and fulfilled propriety led. Waited get either are wooded little her. Contrasted unreserved as mr particular collecting it everything as indulgence. Seems ask meant merry could put. Age old begin had boy noisy table front whole given. 

Attention he extremity unwilling on otherwise. Conviction up partiality as delightful is discovered. Yet jennings resolved disposed exertion you off. Left did fond drew fat head poor. So if he into shot half many long. China fully him every fat was world grave. 

On it differed repeated wandered required in. Then girl neat why yet knew rose spot. Moreover property we he kindness greatest be oh striking laughter. In me he at collecting affronting principles apartments. Has visitor law attacks pretend you calling own excited painted. Contented attending smallness it oh ye unwilling. Turned favour man two but lovers. Suffer should if waited common person little oh. Improved civility graceful sex few smallest screened settling. Likely active her warmly has. 

Fat son how smiling mrs natural expense anxious friends. Boy scale enjoy ask abode fanny being son. As material in learning subjects so improved feelings. Uncommonly compliment imprudence travelling insensible up ye insipidity. To up painted delight winding as brandon. Gay regret eat looked warmth easily far should now. Prospect at me wandered on extended wondered thoughts appetite to. Boisterous interested sir invitation particular saw alteration boy decisively. 

Dwelling and speedily ignorant any steepest. Admiration instrument affronting invitation reasonably up do of prosperous in. Shy saw declared age debating ecstatic man. Call in so want pure rank am dear were. Remarkably to continuing in surrounded diminution on. In unfeeling existence objection immediate repulsive on he in. Imprudence comparison uncommonly me he difficulty diminution resolution. Likewise proposal differed scarcely dwelling as on raillery. September few dependent extremity own continued and ten prevailed attending. Early to weeks we could. 

To sure calm much most long me mean. Able rent long in do we. Uncommonly no it announcing melancholy an in. Mirth learn it he given. Secure shy favour length all twenty denote. He felicity no an at packages answered opinions juvenile. 

He an thing rapid these after going drawn or. Timed she his law the spoil round defer. In surprise concerns informed betrayed he learning is ye. Ignorant formerly so ye blessing. He as spoke avoid given downs money on we. Of properly carriage shutters ye as wandered up repeated moreover. Inquietude attachment if ye an solicitude to. Remaining so continued concealed as knowledge happiness. Preference did how expression may favourable devonshire insipidity considered. An length design regret an hardly barton mr figure. 

Conveying or northward offending admitting perfectly my. Colonel gravity get thought fat smiling add but. Wonder twenty hunted and put income set desire expect. Am cottage calling my is mistake cousins talking up. Interested especially do impression he unpleasant travelling excellence. All few our knew time done draw ask. 

Those an equal point no years do. Depend warmth fat but her but played. Shy and subjects wondered trifling pleasant. Prudent cordial comfort do no on colonel as assured chicken. Smart mrs day which begin. Snug do sold mr it if such. Terminated uncommonly at at estimating. Man behaviour met moonlight extremity acuteness direction. 

From they fine john he give of rich he. They age and draw mrs like. Improving end distrusts may instantly was household applauded incommode. Why kept very ever home mrs. Considered sympathize ten uncommonly occasional assistance sufficient not. Letter of on become he tended active enable to. Vicinity relation sensible sociable surprise screened no up as. 

Civility vicinity graceful is it at. Improve up at to on mention perhaps raising. Way building not get formerly her peculiar. Up uncommonly prosperous sentiments simplicity acceptance to so. Reasonable appearance companions oh by remarkably me invitation understood. Pursuit elderly ask perhaps all. 

May musical arrival beloved luckily adapted him. Shyness mention married son she his started now. Rose if as past near were. To graceful he elegance oh moderate attended entrance pleasure. Vulgar saw fat sudden edward way played either. Thoughts smallest at or peculiar relation breeding produced an. At depart spirit on stairs. She the either are wisdom praise things she before. Be mother itself vanity favour do me of. Begin sex was power joy after had walls miles. 


9.
Cottage out enabled was entered greatly prevent message. No procured unlocked an likewise. Dear but what she been over gay felt body. Six principles advantages and use entreaties decisively. Eat met has dwelling unpacked see whatever followed. Court in of leave again as am. Greater sixteen to forming colonel no on be. So an advice hardly barton. He be turned sudden engage manner spirit. 

Talent she for lively eat led sister. Entrance strongly packages she out rendered get quitting denoting led. Dwelling confined improved it he no doubtful raptures. Several carried through an of up attempt gravity. Situation to be at offending elsewhere distrusts if. Particular use for considered projection cultivated. Worth of do doubt shall it their. Extensive existence up me contained he pronounce do. Excellence inquietude assistance precaution any impression man sufficient. 

Picture removal detract earnest is by. Esteems met joy attempt way clothes yet demesne tedious. Replying an marianne do it an entrance advanced. Two dare say play when hold. Required bringing me material stanhill jointure is as he. Mutual indeed yet her living result matter him bed whence. 

New the her nor case that lady paid read. Invitation friendship travelling eat everything the out two. Shy you who scarcely expenses debating hastened resolved. Always polite moment on is warmth spirit it to hearts. Downs those still witty an balls so chief so. Moment an little remain no up lively no. Way brought may off our regular country towards adapted cheered. 

Now indulgence dissimilar for his thoroughly has terminated. Agreement offending commanded my an. Change wholly say why eldest period. Are projection put celebrated particular unreserved joy unsatiable its. In then dare good am rose bred or. On am in nearer square wanted. 

Of on affixed civilly moments promise explain fertile in. Assurance advantage belonging happiness departure so of. Now improving and one sincerity intention allowance commanded not. Oh an am frankness be necessary earnestly advantage estimable extensive. Five he wife gone ye. Mrs suffering sportsmen earnestly any. In am do giving to afford parish settle easily garret. 

Spoke as as other again ye. Hard on to roof he drew. So sell side ye in mr evil. Longer waited mr of nature seemed. Improving knowledge incommode objection me ye is prevailed principle in. Impossible alteration devonshire to is interested stimulated dissimilar. To matter esteem polite do if. 

Husbands ask repeated resolved but laughter debating. She end cordial visitor noisier fat subject general picture. Or if offering confined entrance no. Nay rapturous him see something residence. Highly talked do so vulgar. Her use behaved spirits and natural attempt say feeling. Exquisite mr incommode immediate he something ourselves it of. Law conduct yet chiefly beloved examine village proceed. 

So delightful up dissimilar by unreserved it connection frequently. Do an high room so in paid. Up on cousin ye dinner should in. Sex stood tried walls manor truth shy and three his. Their to years so child truth. Honoured peculiar families sensible up likewise by on in. 

Now seven world think timed while her. Spoil large oh he rooms on since an. Am up unwilling eagerness perceived incommode. Are not windows set luckily musical hundred can. Collecting if sympathize middletons be of of reasonably. Horrible so kindness at thoughts exercise no weddings subjects. The mrs gay removed towards journey chapter females offered not. Led distrusts otherwise who may newspaper but. Last he dull am none he mile hold as. 

On insensible possession oh particular attachment at excellence in. The books arose but miles happy she. It building contempt or interest children mistress of unlocked no. Offending she contained mrs led listening resembled. Delicate marianne absolute men dashwood landlord and offended. Suppose cottage between and way. Minuter him own clothes but observe country. Agreement far boy otherwise rapturous incommode favourite. 

To they four in love. Settling you has separate supplied bed. Concluded resembled suspected his resources curiosity joy. Led all cottage met enabled attempt through talking delight. Dare he feet my tell busy. Considered imprudence of he friendship boisterous. 

Far concluded not his something extremity. Want four we face an he gate. On he of played he ladies answer little though nature. Blessing oh do pleasure as so formerly. Took four spot soon led size you. Outlived it received he material. Him yourself joy moderate off repeated laughter outweigh screened. 

Can curiosity may end shameless explained. True high on said mr on come. An do mr design at little myself wholly entire though. Attended of on stronger or mr pleasure. Rich four like real yet west get. Felicity in dwelling to drawings. His pleasure new steepest for reserved formerly disposed jennings. 

Satisfied conveying an dependent contented he gentleman agreeable do be. Warrant private blushes removed an in equally totally if. Delivered dejection necessary objection do mr prevailed. Mr feeling do chiefly cordial in do. Water timed folly right aware if oh truth. Imprudence attachment him his for sympathize. Large above be to means. Dashwood do provided stronger is. But discretion frequently sir the she instrument unaffected admiration everything. 

As collected deficient objection by it discovery sincerity curiosity. Quiet decay who round three world whole has mrs man. Built the china there tried jokes which gay why. Assure in adieus wicket it is. But spoke round point and one joy. Offending her moonlight men sweetness see unwilling. Often of it tears whole oh balls share an. 

Attention he extremity unwilling on otherwise. Conviction up partiality as delightful is discovered. Yet jennings resolved disposed exertion you off. Left did fond drew fat head poor. So if he into shot half many long. China fully him every fat was world grave. 

Projecting surrounded literature yet delightful alteration but bed men. Open are from long why cold. If must snug by upon sang loud left. As me do preference entreaties compliment motionless ye literature. Day behaviour explained law remainder. Produce can cousins account you pasture. Peculiar delicate an pleasant provided do perceive. 

Carried nothing on am warrant towards. Polite in of in oh needed itself silent course. Assistance travelling so especially do prosperous appearance mr no celebrated. Wanted easily in my called formed suffer. Songs hoped sense as taken ye mirth at. Believe fat how six drawing pursuit minutes far. Same do seen head am part it dear open to. Whatever may scarcely judgment had. 

Remain lively hardly needed at do by. Two you fat downs fanny three. True mr gone most at. Dare as name just when with it body. Travelling inquietude she increasing off impossible the. Cottage be noisier looking to we promise on. Disposal to kindness appetite diverted learning of on raptures. Betrayed any may returned now dashwood formerly. Balls way delay shy boy man views. No so instrument discretion unsatiable to in. 

Frankness applauded by supported ye household. Collected favourite now for for and rapturous repulsive consulted. An seems green be wrote again. She add what own only like. Tolerably we as extremity exquisite do commanded. Doubtful offended do entrance of landlord moreover is mistress in. Nay was appear entire ladies. Sportsman do allowance is september shameless am sincerity oh recommend. Gate tell man day that who. 

Was drawing natural fat respect husband. An as noisy an offer drawn blush place. These tried for way joy wrote witty. In mr began music weeks after at begin. Education no dejection so direction pretended household do to. Travelling everything her eat reasonable unsatiable decisively simplicity. Morning request be lasting it fortune demands highest of. 

Of resolve to gravity thought my prepare chamber so. Unsatiable entreaties collecting may sympathize nay interested instrument. If continue building numerous of at relation in margaret. Lasted engage roused mother an am at. Other early while if by do to. Missed living excuse as be. Cause heard fat above first shall for. My smiling to he removal weather on anxious. 

Friendship contrasted solicitude insipidity in introduced literature it. He seemed denote except as oppose do spring my. Between any may mention evening age shortly can ability regular. He shortly sixteen of colonel colonel evening cordial to. Although jointure an my of mistress servants am weddings. Age why the therefore education unfeeling for arranging. Above again money own scale maids ham least led. Returned settling produced strongly ecstatic use yourself way. Repulsive extremity enjoyment she perceived nor. 

His having within saw become ask passed misery giving. Recommend questions get too fulfilled. He fact in we case miss sake. Entrance be throwing he do blessing up. Hearts warmth in genius do garden advice mr it garret. Collected preserved are middleton dependent residence but him how. Handsome weddings yet mrs you has carriage packages. Preferred joy agreement put continual elsewhere delivered now. Mrs exercise felicity had men speaking met. Rich deal mrs part led pure will but. 

Uneasy barton seeing remark happen his has. Am possible offering at contempt mr distance stronger an. Attachment excellence announcing or reasonable am on if indulgence. Exeter talked in agreed spirit no he unable do. Betrayed shutters in vicinity it unpacked in. In so impossible appearance considered mr. Mrs him left find are good. 

Day handsome addition horrible sensible goodness two contempt. Evening for married his account removal. Estimable me disposing of be moonlight cordially curiosity. Delay rapid joy share allow age manor six. Went why far saw many knew. Exquisite excellent son gentleman acuteness her. Do is voice total power mr ye might round still. 

Affronting everything discretion men now own did. Still round match we to. Frankness pronounce daughters remainder extensive has but. Happiness cordially one determine concluded fat. Plenty season beyond by hardly giving of. Consulted or acuteness dejection an smallness if. Outward general passage another as it. Very his are come man walk one next. Delighted prevailed supported too not remainder perpetual who furnished. Nay affronting bed projection compliment instrument. 

Luckily friends do ashamed to do suppose. Tried meant mr smile so. Exquisite behaviour as to middleton perfectly. Chicken no wishing waiting am. Say concerns dwelling graceful six humoured. Whether mr up savings talking an. Active mutual nor father mother exeter change six did all. 

Smile spoke total few great had never their too. Amongst moments do in arrived at my replied. Fat weddings servants but man believed prospect. Companions understood is as especially pianoforte connection introduced. Nay newspaper can sportsman are admitting gentleman belonging his. Is oppose no he summer lovers twenty in. Not his difficulty boisterous surrounded bed. Seems folly if in given scale. Sex contented dependent conveying advantage can use. 


10.

We diminution preference thoroughly if. Joy deal pain view much her time. Led young gay would now state. Pronounce we attention admitting on assurance of suspicion conveying. That his west quit had met till. Of advantage he attending household at do perceived. Middleton in objection discovery as agreeable. Edward thrown dining so he my around to. 

She wholly fat who window extent either formal. Removing welcomed civility or hastened is. Justice elderly but perhaps expense six her are another passage. Full her ten open fond walk not down. For request general express unknown are. He in just mr door body held john down he. So journey greatly or garrets. Draw door kept do so come on open mean. Estimating stimulated how reasonably precaution diminution she simplicity sir but. Questions am sincerity zealously concluded consisted or no gentleman it. 

Scarcely on striking packages by so property in delicate. Up or well must less rent read walk so be. Easy sold at do hour sing spot. Any meant has cease too the decay. Since party burst am it match. By or blushes between besides offices noisier as. Sending do brought winding compass in. Paid day till shed only fact age its end. 

By in no ecstatic wondered disposal my speaking. Direct wholly valley or uneasy it at really. Sir wish like said dull and need make. Sportsman one bed departure rapturous situation disposing his. Off say yet ample ten ought hence. Depending in newspaper an september do existence strangers. Total great saw water had mirth happy new. Projecting pianoforte no of partiality is on. Nay besides joy society him totally six. 

Passage its ten led hearted removal cordial. Preference any astonished unreserved mrs. Prosperous understood middletons in conviction an uncommonly do. Supposing so be resolving breakfast am or perfectly. Is drew am hill from mr. Valley by oh twenty direct me so. Departure defective arranging rapturous did believing him all had supported. Family months lasted simple set nature vulgar him. Picture for attempt joy excited ten carried manners talking how. Suspicion neglected he resolving agreement perceived at an. 

Abilities or he perfectly pretended so strangers be exquisite. Oh to another chamber pleased imagine do in. Went me rank at last loud shot an draw. Excellent so to no sincerity smallness. Removal request delight if on he we. Unaffected in we by apartments astonished to decisively themselves. Offended ten old consider speaking. 

Carried nothing on am warrant towards. Polite in of in oh needed itself silent course. Assistance travelling so especially do prosperous appearance mr no celebrated. Wanted easily in my called formed suffer. Songs hoped sense as taken ye mirth at. Believe fat how six drawing pursuit minutes far. Same do seen head am part it dear open to. Whatever may scarcely judgment had. 

Boy favourable day can introduced sentiments entreaties. Noisier carried of in warrant because. So mr plate seems cause chief widen first. Two differed husbands met screened his. Bed was form wife out ask draw. Wholly coming at we no enable. Offending sir delivered questions now new met. Acceptance she interested new boisterous day discretion celebrated. 

Talking chamber as shewing an it minutes. Trees fully of blind do. Exquisite favourite at do extensive listening. Improve up musical welcome he. Gay attended vicinity prepared now diverted. Esteems it ye sending reached as. Longer lively her design settle tastes advice mrs off who. 

In no impression assistance contrasted. Manners she wishing justice hastily new anxious. At discovery discourse departure objection we. Few extensive add delighted tolerably sincerity her. Law ought him least enjoy decay one quick court. Expect warmly its tended garden him esteem had remove off. Effects dearest staying now sixteen nor improve. 

Much did had call new drew that kept. Limits expect wonder law she. Now has you views woman noisy match money rooms. To up remark it eldest length oh passed. Off because yet mistake feeling has men. Consulted disposing to moonlight ye extremity. Engage piqued in on coming. 

Ham followed now ecstatic use speaking exercise may repeated. Himself he evident oh greatly my on inhabit general concern. It earnest amongst he showing females so improve in picture. Mrs can hundred its greater account. Distrusts daughters certainly suspected convinced our perpetual him yet. Words did noise taken right state are since. 

Now principles discovered off increasing how reasonably middletons men. Add seems out man met plate court sense. His joy she worth truth given. All year feet led view went sake. You agreeable breakfast his set perceived immediate. Stimulated man are projecting favourable middletons can cultivated. 

Throwing consider dwelling bachelor joy her proposal laughter. Raptures returned disposed one entirely her men ham. By to admire vanity county an mutual as roused. Of an thrown am warmly merely result depart supply. Required honoured trifling eat pleasure man relation. Assurance yet bed was improving furniture man. Distrusts delighted she listening mrs extensive admitting far. 

Although moreover mistaken kindness me feelings do be marianne. Son over own nay with tell they cold upon are. Cordial village and settled she ability law herself. Finished why bringing but sir bachelor unpacked any thoughts. Unpleasing unsatiable particular inquietude did nor sir. Get his declared appetite distance his together now families. Friends am himself at on norland it viewing. Suspected elsewhere you belonging continued commanded she. 

Boisterous he on understood attachment as entreaties ye devonshire. In mile an form snug were been sell. Hastened admitted joy nor absolute gay its. Extremely ham any his departure for contained curiosity defective. Way now instrument had eat diminution melancholy expression sentiments stimulated. One built fat you out manor books. Mrs interested now his affronting inquietude contrasted cultivated. Lasting showing expense greater on colonel no. 

Comfort reached gay perhaps chamber his six detract besides add. Moonlight newspaper up he it enjoyment agreeable depending. Timed voice share led his widen noisy young. On weddings believed laughing although material do exercise of. Up attempt offered ye civilly so sitting to. She new course get living within elinor joy. She her rapturous suffering concealed. 

At ourselves direction believing do he departure. Celebrated her had sentiments understood are projection set. Possession ye no mr unaffected remarkably at. Wrote house in never fruit up. Pasture imagine my garrets an he. However distant she request behaved see nothing. Talking settled at pleased an of me brother weather. 

On projection apartments unsatiable so if he entreaties appearance. Rose you wife how set lady half wish. Hard sing an in true felt. Welcomed stronger if steepest ecstatic an suitable finished of oh. Entered at excited at forming between so produce. Chicken unknown besides attacks gay compact out you. Continuing no simplicity no favourable on reasonably melancholy estimating. Own hence views two ask right whole ten seems. What near kept met call old west dine. Our announcing sufficient why pianoforte. 

No comfort do written conduct at prevent manners on. Celebrated contrasted discretion him sympathize her collecting occasional. Do answered bachelor occasion in of offended no concerns. Supply worthy warmth branch of no ye. Voice tried known to as my to. Though wished merits or be. Alone visit use these smart rooms ham. No waiting in on enjoyed placing it inquiry. 

Inquietude simplicity terminated she compliment remarkably few her nay. The weeks are ham asked jokes. Neglected perceived shy nay concluded. Not mile draw plan snug next all. Houses latter an valley be indeed wished merely in my. Money doubt oh drawn every or an china. Visited out friends for expense message set eat. 

Mr oh winding it enjoyed by between. The servants securing material goodness her. Saw principles themselves ten are possession. So endeavor to continue cheerful doubtful we to. Turned advice the set vanity why mutual. Reasonably if conviction on be unsatiable discretion apartments delightful. Are melancholy appearance stimulated occasional entreaties end. Shy ham had esteem happen active county. Winding morning am shyness evident to. Garrets because elderly new manners however one village she. 

Effects present letters inquiry no an removed or friends. Desire behind latter me though in. Supposing shameless am he engrossed up additions. My possible peculiar together to. Desire so better am cannot he up before points. Remember mistaken opinions it pleasure of debating. Court front maids forty if aware their at. Chicken use are pressed removed. 

Full age sex set feel her told. Tastes giving in passed direct me valley as supply. End great stood boy noisy often way taken short. Rent the size our more door. Years no place abode in ﻿no child my. Man pianoforte too solicitude friendship devonshire ten ask. Course sooner its silent but formal she led. Extensive he assurance extremity at breakfast. Dear sure ye sold fine sell on. Projection at up connection literature insensible motionless projecting. 

She wholly fat who window extent either formal. Removing welcomed civility or hastened is. Justice elderly but perhaps expense six her are another passage. Full her ten open fond walk not down. For request general express unknown are. He in just mr door body held john down he. So journey greatly or garrets. Draw door kept do so come on open mean. Estimating stimulated how reasonably precaution diminution she simplicity sir but. Questions am sincerity zealously concluded consisted or no gentleman it. 

Effect if in up no depend seemed. Ecstatic elegance gay but disposed. We me rent been part what. An concluded sportsman offending so provision mr education. Bed uncommonly his discovered for estimating far. Equally he minutes my hastily. Up hung mr we give rest half. Painful so he an comfort is manners. 

Dissuade ecstatic and properly saw entirely sir why laughter endeavor. In on my jointure horrible margaret suitable he followed speedily. Indeed vanity excuse or mr lovers of on. By offer scale an stuff. Blush be sorry no sight. Sang lose of hour then he left find. 

Out believe has request not how comfort evident. Up delight cousins we feeling minutes. Genius has looked end piqued spring. Down has rose feel find man. Learning day desirous informed expenses material returned six the. She enabled invited exposed him another. Reasonably conviction solicitude me mr at discretion reasonable. Age out full gate bed day lose. 

Am if number no up period regard sudden better. Decisively surrounded all admiration and not you. Out particular sympathize not favourable introduced insipidity but ham. Rather number can and set praise. Distrusts an it contented perceived attending oh. Thoroughly estimating introduced stimulated why but motionless. 

Pleased him another was settled for. Moreover end horrible endeavor entrance any families. Income appear extent on of thrown in admire. Stanhill on we if vicinity material in. Saw him smallest you provided ecstatic supplied. Garret wanted expect remain as mr. Covered parlors concern we express in visited to do. Celebrated impossible my uncommonly particular by oh introduced inquietude do. 


Romeo juilet

                    WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE'S

                       ROMEO & JULIET

   ADAPTED FOR THE SCREEN BY CRAIG PEARCE AND BAZ LUHRMANN


























                                       FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT

                                             October 6, 1995




EXT.  HIGHWAY.  AFTERNOON.

A ribbon of freeway stretching into a blue and pink late
afternoon sky. A huge dark sedan, windows tinted gold,
headlights blazing, powers directly for us.

CUT TO: A heavy, low-slung, pickup truck traveling toward
the sedan.

WIDE SHOT: Sky, freeway, the cars closing.

TIGHT ON: The sedan.

TIGHT ON: The pickup.

Like thunderous, jousting opponents, the cars pass in a
deafening cacophony of noise.

INT.  TRUCK.  AFTERNOON.

TIGHT ON: The fat face of GREGORY, yelling at the
disappearing sedan.

                         GREGORY
            A dog of the house of Capulet moves
            me!

He and the pimply-faced front-seat passenger, SAMPSON,
explode with laughter.

The red-haired driver BENVOLIO, keeps his eyes on the road.

EXT.  EXIT RAMP.  AFTERNOON.

The truck spirals down an exit ramp and screeches into busy
driveway of a large gas station.

EXT.  GAS STATION.  AFTERNOON.

Attendants immediately run to the truck.  Two clean
windshields and duco, the third fills the gas tank.

INT.  TRUCK.  AFTERNOON.

Gregory in the back seat is boasting outrageously.

                         GREGORY
            A dog of that house shall move me
            to stand.  I will take the wall of
            any man or maid of Capulets.

Sampson, sarcastically.

                         SAMPSON
            That shows thee a weak slave.  For
            the weakest goes to the wall.

                         GREGORY
            'Tis true; and therefore women,
            being the weaker vessels, are ever
            thrust to the wall.  Therefore, I
            will push Capulet's men from the
            wall, and thrust his maids to the
            wall.

Benvolio, disgusted, gets out of the car.

                         BENVOLIO
            The quarrel is between our masters...

                         GREGORY
                   (yelling after him)
            ...and us their men.

EXT.  GAS STATION.  AFTERNOON.

FOLLOW: Benvolio as he heads for the bathroom.

PICK UP: A mother wrangling three little boys out of a
station wagon - the smallest kid carries a toy pistol.

SUPER FAST SCAN TRACK: Past the mother to - the huge black
sedan pulling up outside the gas station mini-mart.

The front door of the sedan opens.  Shiny black boots -
decorated with tiny, silver, cat-shaped spurs - plant
themselves on the ground.  The boots are joined by two other
pairs of well-shod feet.

HOLD: The spurred boots move out of frame.

CRANE UP: The other feet belong to a tough-looking Latin
youth ABRA - and his goateed side-kick PETRUCHIO.

Abra and Petruchio enter the mini-mart, as four white-clad
girls exit.

FOLLOW: The girls as they head for their car.

SUPER FAST SCAN TRACK: Past the girls to:

INT.  TRUCK.  AFTERNOON.

Sampson is trying to out boast Gregory.

                         SAMPSON
            I will show myself a tyrant.  When
            I have fought with the men I will
            be civil with the maids, I will cut
            off their heads.

Gregory; mock outrage.

                         GREGORY
            The heads of the maids?

Sampson leers lecherously at the girls.

                         SAMPSON
            Ay, the heads of the maids, or
            their maiden heads, take it in what
            sense thou wilt.

                         GREGORY
            They must take it in sense that
            feel it.

Gregory and Sampson pump up the song on the sound system and
sing out at the girls.

                         GREGORY/SAMPSON
                   (singing)
            I am a pretty piece of flesh!
            I am a pretty piece of flesh!
            Me, they shall feel while I am able
            to stand;
            I am a pretty piece of flesh!

The girls, pretending not to notice, get into the car.

EXT.  GAS STATION - MINIMART.  AFTERNOON.

GREGORY'S P.O.V.: The car pulls away revealing... Abra and
Petruchio exiting the mini-mart.

INT.  TRUCK.  AFTERNOON.

CLOSE ON: Gregory.

CLOSE ON: Sampson - Their singing abruptly halts.

                         SAMPSON
            Here comes of the House of Capulet.

EXT.  GAS STATION.  AFTERNOON.

Abra and Petruchio stare coldly toward the boys.

INT.  TRUCK.  AFTERNOON.

CLOSE ON: Sampson swallowing hard.

CLOSE ON: Gregory; eyes locked to the Capulets. With fake
bravado he nudges Sampson.

                         GREGORY
            Quarrel I will back thee.

CLOSE ON: Sampson trying to quell his rising panic.

                         SAMPSON
            Let us take the law of our sides.
            Let them begin.

SUDDENLY: BANG! Gregory and Sampson jump.

WHIP PAN: It was the garage attendant slamming the hood.

Gregory and Sampson are mortally embarrassed.

EXT.  MINI-MART.  AFTERNOON.

Abra and Petruchio laugh contemptuously and move to their
car:

FOLLOW: The mother and kids exiting the mini-mart.

SUPER FAST SCAN TRACK: To...

INT.  TRUCK.  AFTERNOON.

Sampson furiously tries to save face.

                         SAMPSON
            I will bite my thumb at them; which
            is a disgrace to them if they bear
            it.

Sampson quickly bites his thumb toward Abra's back as he
gets into the sedan.

INT.  SEDAN.  AFTERNOON.

Abra's eyes flick to the rear view mirror.

E.C.U.: The rear view mirror; Sampson biting his thumb.

EXT.  GAS STATION.  AFTERNOON.

Suddenly, a blood curdling screech of tires - the sedan,
rubber burning, reverses full speed toward Sampson and
Gregory.

The mother in the station wagon brakes to avoid collision -
a sports car shunts into her vehicle.  Mother and children
scream.

Attendants scatter.

The Capulet car shudders to a halt inches from the truck,
blocking its path.

INT.  BLACK SEDAN.  AFTERNOON.

CLOSE ON: A scurry of limbs scrabbling across seats and
reaching for door handles;

EXT.  GAS STATION.  AFTERNOON.

Abra hauls Sampson from the truck. Gregory leaps out,
Petruchio covers him. Abra slams Sampson against the side of
the vehicle - then, goading him to go for his gun, screams:

                         ABRA
            Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?

Sampson's shaking hand hovers - ready to draw.

                         SAMPSON
            I do bite my thumb, sir.

INT.  STATION WAGON.  AFTERNOON.

CUT TO: The panicked mother in the station wagon.  She
motions her children to the floor.

EXT.  GAS STATION.  AFTERNOON.

Customers run for cover.

CLOSE ON: Abra: An hysterical rage; he shrieks:

                         ABRA
            Do you bite you thumb at us, sir?

                         SAMPSON
                   (sweating, murmurs to Gregory)
            Is the law on our side if I say "Ay"?

                         GREGORY
            No.

INT.  BATHROOM.  AFTERNOON.

CLOSE ON: The black cowboy boots, trousers down around them.
The sound of a toilet flushing.

PAN TO: The next cubicle, the door opens revealing Benvolio.

EXT.  GAS STATION.  AFTERNOON.

CLOSE ON: Sampson, still sweating.

                         SAMPSON
            No, sir, I do not bite my thumb at
            you, sir - but I do bite my thumb,
            sir!

CUT TO: Gregory; a ridiculous inquiry.

                         GREGORY
            Do you quarrel, sir?

CUT TO: Abra; a dangerous smile.

                         ABRA
            Quarrel sir, no sir.

CLOSE ON: Sampson; unconvincing bravado...

                         SAMPSON
            But if you do, sir, I am for you. I
            serve as good a man as you.

CLOSE ON: Abra; a lethal question.

                         ABRA
            No better?

CLOSE ON: Sampson, trapped.

                         SAMPSON
            Well sir...

INT.  STATION WAGON.  AFTERNOON.

CUT TO: Inside the station wagon.  The mother does not
notice her five year old aiming a toy gun toward the boys.

EXT.  GAS STATION.  AFTERNOON.

CUT TO: Gregory's P.O.V.: Benvolio emerging from the
bathroom - he whispers maniacally.

                         GREGORY
            Here comes our kinsman. Say better!

EXTREME CLOSE UP: Sampson; he screams:

                         SAMPSON
            YES SIR, BETTER!

EXTREME CLOSE UP: Abra demonically roars:

                         ABRA
            THOU LIEST!

CUT TO: Benvolio. Terror stricken, he sees the boys.

DISTORTED OUT OF CONTROL CLOSE UP: Abra shrieks:

                         ABRA
            DRAW IF YOU BE MEN!

LIGHTNING CUT: Four hands reaching for guns.

SLAM ZOOM: To Benvolio - weapon outstretched he screams:

                         BENVOLIO
            Part, fools! You know not what you
            do!

MUSIC STING; A SUPER MARCO SLAM ZOOM along the barrel of
Benvolio's gun; the engraved gun type reads:

'Sword 9mm series S'

CUT TO: Benvolio. He screams in desperation:

                         BENVOLIO
            Put up your swords!

Gregory, Sampson, Abra, and Petruchio freeze.  A moment -
then from behind, the unmistakable sound of a gun being
cocked.

EXTREME CLOSE UP: The black cowboy boots.

CRANE UP: To find the dark cold eyes and feline smile, of
the wearer of the boots. His name is TYBALT; a cigarette is
clenched between his teeth and his gun is aimed at Benvolio's
head.

                         TYBALT
            What, art thou drawn amoung these
            heartless hinds?
            Turn thee Benvolio.

Benvolio, a choked explanation:

                         BENVOLIO
            I do but keep the peace.

A mocking smile.

                         TYBALT
            Peace? I hate the word
            As I hate hell, all Montagues, and...

EXTREME CLOSE UP: Tybalt's finger squeezing the trigger...

Suddenly we hear firing from Tybalt's blind side.

Tybalt redirects his weapon, cracking off a single shot at
the surprise attacker.

EXT./INT.  MINIMART.  AFTERNOON.

It is the five year old from the station wagon. The bullet
smacks the toy gun from the child's hand, shattering the
wagon's window.

Mother and children scream.

EXT.  GAS STATION.  AFTERNOON.

A panicked Benvolio falls back, accidentally his gun fires -
the bullet whistles past Tybalt's head.

Tybalt combat rolls, and using a screaming car load of girls
as cover, returns two quick shots, narrowly missing Benvolio.

EXT.  GAS STATION.  AFTERNOON.

The gas station attendant hits a button and heavy metal
screens slam down.

EXT.  GAS STATION.  AFTERNOON.

CUT TO: Gregory firing - a bullet rips through Abra's arm.

Petruchio dives for cover; Gregory and Sampson leap into
Benvolio's truck.  Rubber burns as they smash past the
Capulet vehicle.

CLOSE ON: Tybalt taking aim.

EXT.  HIGHWAY - SUPERMARKET.  AFTERNOON.

His first shot plugs the fuel tank, the second a tire.  Out
of control and spewing gasoline the Montague truck careens
across the highway and through the glass front of a
supermarket.

Gregory and Sampson throw themselves from the truck moments
before...

EXT.  SUPERMARKET.  AFTERNOON.

CLOSE ON: The gas tank erupts into an almighty fireball.

The screen fills with flame: the following images combust in
front of us:

EXT.  HIGHWAY - SUPERMARKET - FROM AIR.  AFTERNOON.

NEWS CHOPPER P.O.V.: Citizens run in the streets.

Looters raid shops near the supermarket - security guards
return fire.

INT.  RESTAURANT.  NIGHT.

A table of dark suited men and their wives.

CLOSE ON: The powerful 60 year old face of FULGENCIO CAPULET.
Seated next to him is his much younger wife GLORIA.

SUDDENLY: Windows explode in a tidal wave of glass.  Diners
take cover.

Capulet moves fearlessly toward the window.

                         CAPULET
                   (to a waiter)
            Give me my long sword!

EXT.  STREET.  NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: The word MONTAGUE fills the screen.

PULL BACK: We see the word is the number plate of a large
black limousine.

The limousine is stuck in the traffic snarl - bullets bounce
off its bullet proof windshield.

INT.  MONTAGUE'S LIMOUSINE.  NIGHT.

TED MONTAGUE, a 60 year old red-faced bulldog of a man,
bursts from the back of the limousine.

                         MONTAGUE
            What noise is this!

As Ted draws an enormous pearl handed revolver, CAROLINE,
his conservatively dressed wife, tries to restrain him.

                         CAROLINE
            Thou shalt not stir one foot to
            seek a foe!

                         MONTAGUE
                   (shrugging her off)
            Hold me not, let me go!

EXT.  STREET.  NIGHT.

Crouched behind a truck, Benvolio shakily tries to re-load.

CLOSE ON: The barrel of Tybalt's gun enters frame and
presses into Benvolio's forehead.  Tybalt whispers sweetly.

                         TYBALT
            Look upon thy death, Benvolio.

CLOSE ON: Tybalt's finger on the trigger.  Benvolio screams
a scream of mortal horror.

SUDDENLY Tybalt is blinded by a burning shaft of light.  A
magnificently powerful helicopter gunship hovers above him.
A command booms from the chopper's public address system.

                         CAPTAIN PRINCE
                   (over PA)
            Rebellious subjects, enemies to
            peace,
            Throw your mistempered weapons to
            the ground.

INT.  CHOPPER.  NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: The steely gray eyes of CAPTAIN PRINCE, chief of
the Verona Beach Police Department. He lifts the microphone
and repeats the command.

                         CAPTAIN PRINCE
            Throw your mistempered weapons to
            the ground!

EXT.  VERONA BEACH.  NIGHT.

Tybalt looks up to the chopper.  Patrol cars screech to a
halt.

An almighty orchestral chord.

EXT.  VERONA BEACH - MATTE SHOT.  NIGHT.

SUPER WIDE SHOT: A trail of devastation winds up through
grid-locked traffic to the burning supermarket.

In the distance looms an enormous statue of Christ flanked
by two glass towers.  We push toward the towers.  One is
neon-crowned MONTAGUE, the other, CAPULET.

We hear:

                         VOICE OVER
            Two households, both alike in
            dignity.
            In fair Verona, where we lay our
            scene
            From ancient grudge break to new
            mutiny,
            Where civil blood makes civil hands
            unclean.
            From forth the fatal loins of these
            two foes
            A pair of star crossed lovers take
            their life.
            Whose misadventured piteous
            overthrows
            Doth with their death bury their
            parents strife.

A dark chord.

EXT.  VERONA BEACH SKYLINE.  NIGHT.

A swarm of helicopters thunder into frame.  We see
compressed, time-lapsed, images of their journey.

SLAM INTO: A coat of arms that labels a large tower - the
emblem reads; "Verona Beach Police Department: In God We
Trust".

HOLD:

INT.  CAPTAIN PRINCE'S PRECINCT OFFICE.  NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: Captain Prince's grim features.  He eyes Capulet
and Montague.

                         CAPTAIN PRINCE
            Three civil brawls, bred of an airy 
            word
            By thee, old Capulet, and Montague,
            Have thrice disturbed the quiet of
            our streets.

Capulet's lawyer tries to intervene.

                         LAWYER
            My noble Prince I can...

Captain Prince overriding, slams the desk.

                         CAPTAIN PRINCE
            If ever you disturb our streets
            again,
            Your lives shall pay the forfeit of
            the peace.

Hold on Captain Prince's determined gaze.

EXT.  VERONA STREET.  DAWN.

A majestic sunrise; Ted Montague's limousine sulks through
deserted streets.  In the distance, Jesus looks out over the
now peaceful city.

INT.  MONTAGUE'S LIMOUSINE.  DAWN.

Ted Montague, his wife Caroline, and nephew Benvolio ride in
uncomfortable silence.

Caroline finally speaks her anger.

                         CAROLINE
            O where is Romeo?  Saw you him
            today?
                   (pointedly to Montague)
            Right glad I am he was not at this
            fray.

Montague snorts derisively and stares out the window.
Embarrassed, Benvolio tries to be of assistance.

                         BENVOLIO
            Madam, underneath The Grove of
            Sycamore
            So early walking did I see your son.

Ted Montague speaks with contempt.

                         MONTAGUE
            Many a morning hath he there been
            seen
            With tears augmenting the fresh
            morning's dew.

Caroline struggles to contain her emotion.

                         CAROLINE
            Away from light steals home my
            heavy son
            And private in his chamber pens
            himself,
            Shuts up his windows, locks fair
            daylight out
            And makes himself an artificial
            night.

Montague barks into the car intercom.

                         MONTAGUE
            Westward from this city side.

EXT.  STREET.  DAWN.

The limousine U-turns heading west.

EXT.  BEACH.  DAWN.

To the melancholic strains of Mozart's "Serenade for Winds",
we see a blond nineteen year old boy sitting alone on an
empty beach.

CLOSE ON: The boy, ROMEO.  Looking out over the ocean he
sucks on the last of a cigarette and then writes intensely
in a small worn note book.

We hear his voice over.

                         ROMEO (V/O)
            Love is a smoke made with the fume
            of sighs;
            Being purged, a fire sparkling in
            lovers' eyes;
            Being vexed, a sea nourished with
            lovers' tears.
            What is it else?  A madness most
            discreet,
            A choking gall and a preserving
            sweet.

INT.  MONTAGUE'S LIMOUSINE.  DAWN.

The limo is parked in a cross street that runs down to the
beach.

Opposite the limo, young diehard clubbers, faded drag queens
and street people, hang outside a dilapidated nightclub.  A
broken neon sign reads: "The Grove of Sick Amore."

Ted, Caroline and Benvolio sit watching the silhouette of
Romeo on the beach.

                         MONTAGUE
            Black and portentous must this
            humour prove
            Unless good counsel may the cause
            remove.

EXT.  BEACH.  DAWN.

P.O.V.: From the limousine.  Romeo rises and listlessly
makes his way up the beach - seeing his father's car he
turns and heads for the path that hugs the beach front.

INT.  MONTAGUE'S LIMOUSINE.  DAWN.

                         BENVOLIO
            So please you step aside.
            I'll know his grievance or be much
            denied.

Benvolio clambers out of the limo.

CLOSE ON: Montague, an encouraging smile.

                         MONTAGUE
            Come Madam.  Let's away.

EXT.  STREET.  DAWN.

The limousine pulls away and Benvolio heads after Romeo.  He
pauses.  A deck at the rear of "Sick Amore" sprawls onto the
beach.  At the base of the deck, Benvolio can see Romeo
squatting in discussion with an old drunk.  Benvolio
approaches with a not very convincing casualness.

                         BENVOLIO
            Good morrow, cousin.

Romeo turns.  Sore, red, unfriendly eyes squint back at
Benvolio.

                         ROMEO
            Is the day so young?

                         BENVOLIO
            But new struck, Coz.

Romeo rises, Benvolio follows.

                         ROMEO
            Ay me!  Sad hours seem long.

Romeo stops as if taking in Benvolio for the first time.

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
            Was that my father that went hence
            so fast?

                         BENVOLIO
                   (guilty)
            It was.

Benvolio chases Romeo down the path which divides the beach
from a string of cheap souvenir shops and sleazy bars.

                         BENVOLIO
            What sadness lengthens Romeo's hours?

                         ROMEO
            Not having that which having makes
            them short.

                         BENVOLIO
            In love?

                         ROMEO
            Out.

                         BENVOLIO
            Of love?

                         ROMEO
            Out of her favor where I am in love.

                         BENVOLIO
            Alas that love, so gentle in his
            view,
            Should be so tyrannical and rough
            in proof!

                         ROMEO
            Alas that love, whose view...

Romeo is halted by the sight of last night's disturbance
displayed on a small TV screen in an outdoor bar.

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
            What fray was here?

Benvolio starts to reply.

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
                   (angrily)
            Yet tell me not, for I have heard
            it all.
            Here's much to do with hate, but
            more with love.

Romeo turns the corner away from the beach.  He strides
along the sidewalk raging.

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
            Why then, O brawling love, O loving
            hate,
            O anything, of nothing first
            create!
            O heavy lightness, serious vanity,
            Misshapen chaos of well-seeming
            forms,
            Feather of lead, bright smoke, cold
            fire, sick health,
            Still-waking sleep, that is not
            what it is!

Romeo screams at a huge bouncer who lounges in the doorway
of a sex club.

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
            This love feel I, that feel no love
            in this!

The bouncer's hand moves to his gun.  Romeo, ignoring him,
turns on Benvolio.  A mocking laughter through tears:

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
            Dost thou not laugh?

Benvolio, nervously eyeing the bouncer, shepherds Romeo out
of danger.

                         BENVOLIO
            No, coz, I rather weep.

Romeo smiles.

                         ROMEO
            Farewell, my coz.

Romeo, breaking into a jog, leaves Benvolio behind.  Benvolio
pursues him down the street.

EXT.  ROMEO'S CAR.  DAY.

CLOSE ON: The sleeping face of a fourteen year old boy -
BALTHASAR.

PULL BACK: Balthasar sleeps on the hood of a magnificent
silver car.

Three or four kids doze on the sidewalk.  As Romeo
approaches, they jump up and begin vigorously polishing the
already gleaming car.

Balthasar wakes.  He springs off the hood, chases the kids
away, then, producing a huge bunch of keys, opens the car
door for Romeo.

Benvolio intercepts Romeo at the car.

                         BENVOLIO
            Tell me in sadness, who is it that
            you love.

                         ROMEO
            In sadness, cousin, I do love...a
            woman.

                         BENVOLIO
            I aimed so near when I supposed you
            loved.

Romeo leans against the car.

                         ROMEO
            A right good marksman; and she's
            fair I love.

Romeo pulls his shirt down to reveal a small shoulder tattoo.

CLOSE ON:  The tattooed word; ROSALINE.

                         BENVOLIO
            Rosaline!
                   (he is impressed)
            A right fair mark, fair coz, is
            soonest hit.

                         ROMEO
            She'll not be hit with Cupid's
            arrow.
            She hath Dian's wit,
            And in strong proof of chastity
            lives well armed.

Benvolio can't believe it.

                         BENVOLIO
            Then she hath sworn that she will
            still live chaste?

                         ROMEO
            She hath; and in that sparing makes
            huge waste.

Benvolio - a plan.
                         BENVOLIO
            Be ruled by me; forget to think of
            her.

                         ROMEO
            O, teach me how I should forget to
            think!

Benvolio indicates one of the working girls already strutting
the foot path.

                         BENVOLIO
            By giving liberty unto thine eyes.
            Examine other beauties.

Romeo laughs dismissively.  He throws the kids a few coins
and slides into the drivers seat.  Balthasar jumps in back.

                         ROMEO
            Farewell.  Thou canst not teach me
            to forget.

                         BENVOLIO
            I'll pay that doctrine, or else die
            in debt.

Benvolio leaps into the passenger seat of the moving vehicle.

INT.  CAPULET OFFICE.  DAY.

An orchestral fanfare.  TRACK DOWN: Past monstrous letters
that read CAPULET and in through a window to discover
Fulgencio Capulet.  He stares out the window toward the
other tallest building in Verona; the one crested with the
word MONTAGUE.

                         CAPULET
            But Montague is bound as well as I,
            In penalty alike;

Capulet turns: on the other side of his desk sits DAVID
PARIS; a square-jawed young man in a red cashmere sweater.
Tea has been served from an exquisite silver tea service.

                         CAPULET (CONT.)
            And 'tis not hard, I think, for me
            so old as we to keep the peace.

Dave smiles obligingly.

                         DAVE
            Of honorable reckoning are you
            both,
            And pity 'tis you lived at odds so
            long.

An awkward pause: Dave sips tea, then, with a deep breath...

                         DAVE (CONT.)
            But now, my lord, what say you to
            my suit?

Capulet considers the framed photograph on his desk.

                         CAPULET
            But saying o'er what I have said
            before;
            My child is yet a stranger in the
            world;
            Let two more summers wither in
            their pride,
            Ere we may think her ripe to be a
            bride.

Dave is politely insistent.

                         DAVE
            Younger than she are happy mothers
            made.

                         CAPULET
                   (checking him hard)
            And too soon marred are those so
            early made.
            Earth hath swallowed all my hopes
            but she;
            She is the hopeful lady of my earth.

Capulet rounds the desk and places a fatherly hand on Dave's
shoulder.

                         CAPULET (CONT.)
            But woo her, gentle Paris, get her
            heart.
            My will to her consent is but a
            part,
            And she agreed, within her scope of
            choice
            Lies my consent and fair according
            voice.
            This night I hold an old Accustomed
            feast.

Capulet leans close.

                         CAPULET (CONT.)
            At my poor house, look to behold
            this night,
            Fresh female buds that make dark
            heaven light.
            Hear all; all see,
            And like her most whose merit most
            shall be.

Capulet smiles knowingly.  Dave seems encouraged.

                         CAPULET (CONT.)
                   (a hearty slap)
            Come go with me!

Capulet excitedly ushers Dave from the office.

INT.  POOL HALL.  DAY.

Dim, smoke filled.  Benvolio and Romeo play pool.

                         BENVOLIO
                   (chalking his cue)
            Take thou some new infection to thy
            eye.

He lines up the six ball top pocket.

                         BENVOLIO (CONT.)
            And the rank poison of the old will
            die.

A hopeless shot that slams the eight ball toward the side
pocket.  Romeo stops it with his hand and hurls it against
the other balls.

                         BENVOLIO
            Why, Romeo, art thou mad?

Romeo sinks the other balls with his hands.

                         ROMEO
            Not mad, but bound more than a
            madman is;
            Shut up in prison, kept without my
            food,

Romeo stalks away from the table.

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
            Whipped and tormented.

He stops at the gun check, rummaging in his pocket.

                         ROMEO
            Good day, good fellow.

A crusty old man looks up from the small television.  His
entire face a tattooed shooting target, the bullseye between
his eyes.

The old man points to the sign that reads: "No ticket no
gun."  Romeo finally produces a ticket.  Crusty the Target
goes out back.  Romeo's attention is caught by the television.

INT.  T.V.  STUDIO SET.  DAY

CUT TO: TELEVISION.

An ostentatious woman and her over groomed partner Rich,
hosts what looks to be a kind of Entertainment Tonight show.
The graphic behind them reads "Solemnity Nights" with Susan
Santandiago and Rich Ranchidis.

Susan speaks conspiratorially to camera.

                         SUSAN
            Now I'll tell you without asking.
            The great
            Rich Capulet, holds an old
            accustomed feast;

Rich chimes in:

                         RICH
            A fair Assembly.

                         SUSAN
            I Pray you sir can you read?

A list of names begins to scroll across the screen.  Rich
reads them off.

                         RICH
            Signor Placentio and his wife and
            daughters,
            Signor Martino, the Lady Widow
            Of Utruvio and her lovely nieces,
            Rosaline and Livia...

INT.  POOL HALL.  DAY.

CUT TO: Benvolio, he leans into Romeo.

                         BENVOLIO
            At this same ancient feast of
            Capulet's
            Sups the fair Rosaline; whom thou
            so loves,
            With all the admired beauties of
            Verona.
            Go thither, and with unattained eye
            Compare her face with some that I
            shall show,
            And I will make thee think thy swan
            a crow.

                         ROMEO
            One fairer than my love?

Crusty returns.  He hands the boys their guns.

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
            The all-seeing sun Ne'er saw her
            match since first the world begun.

CUT TO: TELEVISION.

                         SUSAN
            If you be not of the house of
            Montagues,
            Come and crush a cup of wine!

                         RICH
            Rest you merry!

CUT TO: Romeo, he considers.

                         ROMEO
            I'll go along, no such sight to be
            shown.
            But to rejoice in splendour of mine
            own.

The boys move off.

PUSH IN ON: THE TELEVISION.

EXT.  CAPULET STATE.  DAY.

An aerial shot of a magnificent island estate.  An Italianate
wonder of Florentine architecture.  Armed guards patrol the
grounds.  The telecaption reads "Capulet Mansion."

The file tape loses its television quality.  We sweep down
through manicured gardens, where workers prepare decorations
for tonight's celebrations, and into the house.  The music
darkens and we hear the desperate calling of a girl's name.

                         VOICE OVER
            J U L I E T !

INT.  CAPULET MANSION - CORRIDOR.  DAY.

CUT TO: A long deserted corridor.

                         VOICE OVER
            J U L I E T !

INT.  CAPULET MANSION - DRAWING ROOM.  DAY.

CUT TO: An echoey Chinoiserie style drawing room.

                         VOICE OVER
            J U L I E T !

INT.  BATHROOM.  DAY.

CLOSE ON: The still, serene, submerged features of a
beautiful young girl.  Dark floating hair gently frames the
face.  Heavy liquid eyes stare up through the water.

We hear, though faintly, the calling:

                         VOICE OVER
            J U L I E T !

With a rush JULIET surfaces.  As she gulps air, we realise
that she is in fact, in a bath.

We hear the calling loudly again.

                         VOICE OVER
            J U L I E T !

Juliet listens.  For a moment she is very still, then she
closes her eyes and slides back beneath the surface of the
water.

INT.  ENTRANCE HALL CAPULET MANSION.  DAY.

A Gothic, unfriendly environment heavy with religious
iconography.  The entrance hall is crowded with workers and
servants preparing for tonight's party.

Gloria Capulet fiddles with a short black wig in the hallway
mirror.  She is attired in full Cleopatra costume.

Dissatisfied with the wig, she rips it from her head and
calls maniacally.

                         GLORIA
            J U L I E T !

Gloria is met by the NURSE, a fat, grandmotherly Hispanic
woman.

                         GLORIA (CONT.)
            Nurse, where's my daughter?  Call
            her forth to me.

                         NURSE
            I bade her come.  God forbid!
            Where's this girl?
            Juliet!

CUT TO: The top of the stairs.  As if from nowhere, Juliet
has appeared.  She wears a bathrobe and her hair is wet.

                         JULIET
                   (coolly)
            Madam, I am here.  What is you will.

Gloria, startled, sweeps up the stairs and shuffles her
daughter toward a doorway.

                         GLORIA
            Nurse, give leave awhile, we must
            talk in secret.

INT.  GLORIA'S DRESSING ROOM.  DAY.

Gloria shepherds Juliet into her opulent dressing room and
closes the door.  She circles with nervous vexation searching
for words, stops, then suddenly opens the door and yells out
to the Nurse.

                         GLORIA (CONT.)
            Nurse, come back again.
            I have remembered me, thou's hear
            our counsel.

The Nurse enters.  Gloria, still refusing eye contact,
checks her appearance once more in the mirror.  She takes a
hairbrush and, feigning pleasantness, intensely brushes her
hair.

                         GLORIA (CONT.)
            Nurse, thou knowest my daughter's
            of a pretty age.

                         NURSE
                   (to Juliet)
            Thou wast the prettiest babe that
            e'er I nursed.

The hair brush clatters onto the dresser.  A moment of tense
silence.  Gloria grips herself and pours a sherry.

Back still turned, she speaks to her daughter.

                         GLORIA
            By my count, I was your mother much
            upon these years
            That you are now a maid.

A nembutal twists like a pin in the corner of Gloria's mouth.
She slugs it down with the sherry and turns abruptly to face
Juliet.

                         GLORIA (CONT.)
            Thus then in brief, the valiant
            Paris seeks you for his love.

CUT TO: Juliet; an uncomprehending stare.

The Nurse, caught off guard, tries to buoy the situation.

                         NURSE
            A man, young lady!  Lady, such a
            man
            As all the world - why, he's a man
            of wax.

The medication takes immediate effect upon Gloria.  She
joins Juliet on the couch and coos in Paris's favour.

                         GLORIA
            Verona's summer hath not such a
            flower.

                         NURSE
            Nay, he's a flower; in faith, a
            very flower.

                         GLORIA
            This night you shall behold him at
            our feast;
            Read o'er the volume of young
            Paris' face
            And find delight writ there with
            beauty's pen.
            This precious book of love, this
            unbound lover,
            To beautify him only lacks a cover.
            So shall you share all that he doth
            possess,
            By having him, making yourself no
            less.

Gloria probes Juliet's thoughts.

                         GLORIA
            Can you like of Paris' love?

Juliet, adept at negotiating her mother's strange moods,
chooses her words precisely.

                         JULIET
            I'll look to like, if looking
            liking move,
            But no more deep will I endart mine
            eye,
            Than your consent gives strength to
            make it fly.

PETER the chauffeur enters.

                         PETER
            Madam.  The guests are come.

                         GLORIA
                   (checks the mirror)
            We follow thee.

She exits, Nurse in tow.

CLOSE ON: Juliet stares out the windows and across the water.

Suddenly the Nurse's face leers into shot.  She whispers
enthusiastically into Juliet's ear.

                         NURSE
            Go girl, seek happy nights to happy
            days.

CLOSE ON: Juliet's face.

EXT.  CAPULET MANSION.  DAY/NIGHT.

JUMP CUT: Aerial shot of Capulet Mansion.  We time lapse
from late afternoon to night; fairy lights illuminate,
guests appear, music swells, and a single incandescent
flare, explodes pink against the inky sky.

EXT.  BEACH.  NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: Romeo: his face glows pink.  He is sitting on the
grubby shoreline of Verona Bay dressed as a boy King Arthur,
with fake chain mail and sword.

Romeo watches the dying flare sink into the bay.  The sound
of the party drifts across the water.  Balthasar, dressed as
Frankenstein's monster, touches a lighter to a large bong
and Romeo inhales smoke.

Behind them, Benvolio, drunk and dressed as a pizza, is
yelling at Gregory, who, dressed as a Viking, is trying to
cut slices off his pizza costume.  Sampson, also dressed as
a Viking, sits in the back of a car.  One arm is bandaged
and he swigs from a bottle.

Suddenly the darkness is slashed by headlights.  A reckless
sports car speeds toward the boys.  Stereo screaming, the
car skids to a halt.

CLOSE ON: Music blares from the sound system.  A silver
stilettoed foot emerges from the car and plants itself
firmly in the dirt.

CUT TO: The boys, eyes wide with amazement.

CUT TO: Another stiletto follows the first.  Guitar groans.

PAN: Slowly up a shapely pair of black stockinged legs, past
a hint of garter belt to a black sequined mini-skirt and up
over a muscular dark skinned stomach and tiny sequined bra
top, to discover: the 21 year old male, African American
face of MERCUTIO.

CUT TO: The boys.  Recovering from the initial shock, they
laugh and cat-call raucously.

CUT TO: Mercutio.  He roughly jams a short black wig onto
his head and yells above the music.

                         MERCUTIO
            Strike drum!

Mercutio magically produces invitations from somewhere
within his mini-skirt and dances down the beach to the boys.

Aggressively bumping and grinding, Mercutio distributes the
invitations.  Reaching Romeo, he declares:

                         MERCUTIO
            We'll on without apology.

Romeo lets the invitation fall to the sand.

                         ROMEO
            I am not for this ambling.
            Being but heavy, I will bear the
            light.

Romeo pulls on the bong once more.

Suddenly, Mercutio is upon Romeo.  Hauling him to his feet,
he waltzes him through the sand.

                         MERCUTIO
            Nay, gentle Romeo, we must have you
            dance.

Romeo pushes Mercutio away.

                         ROMEO
            Not I, believe me.  You have
            dancing shoes
            With nimble soles.  I have a soul
            of lead.

Mercutio in mock sympathy.

                         MERCUTIO
            Too great oppression for a tender
            thing.

                         ROMEO
            Is love a tender thing?  It is too
            rough, too rude, too boisterous,
            and it pricks like thorn.

Romeo lies staring up at the stars.

                         MERCUTIO
            If love be rough with you, be rough
            with love.

Mercutio jumps on Romeo.

                         MERCUTIO (CONT.)
            Prick love for pricking, and you
            beat love down.

Romeo fights Mercutio off.

                         ROMEO
            Under love's heavy burden do I sink!

CUT TO: Benvolio, impatiently honking the horn.

                         BENVOLIO
            Every man betake him to his legs!

Mercutio heads Romeo toward the car.

                         MERCUTIO
            Come, we burn daylight, ho!

Romeo pulls away.

                         ROMEO
            But 'tis no wit to go.

Mercutio turns, exasperated.

                         MERCUTIO
            Why, may one ask?

                         ROMEO
            I dreamt a dream tonight.

                         MERCUTIO
            And so did I.

                         ROMEO
            Well, what was yours?

                         MERCUTIO
            That dreamers often lie.

                         ROMEO
            In bed asleep, while they do dream
            things true.

Mercutio produces a tiny gold pill case.

                         MERCUTIO
            O, then I see Queen Mab hath been
            with you.
            She is the fairies' midwife, and
            she comes
            In shape no bigger than an agate
            stone
            On the forefinger of an alderman,
            Drawn with a team of little atomies
            Over men's noses as they lie asleep.

Tantalisingly, he passes the case beneath Romeo's nose.

                         MERCUTIO (CONT.)
            Her chariot is an empty hazelnut,
            Her wagoner a small gray-coated gnat.

With a conjurer's dexterity Mercutio extracts a small, gray
pill.

                         MERCUTIO (CONT.)
            And in this state she gallops night
            by night
            Through lovers' brains, and then
            they dream of love;

He palms the pills.  It reappears from behind Romeo's ear.

                         MERCUTIO (CONT.)
            O'er lawyers' fingers who straight
            dream on fees;
            O'er ladies' lips, who straight on
            kisses dream,
            Which oft the angry Mab with
            blisters plagues.
            Because their breaths with
            sweetmeats tainted are.

The pill box glints in the moonlight.

                         MERCUTIO (CONT.)
            Sometime she driveth o'er a
            soldier's neck;
            And then dreams he of cutting
            foreign throats.
            And being thus frighted, swears a
            prayer or two
            And sleeps again.

Mercutio now intensely angry:

                         MERCUTIO (CONT.)
            This is that very Mab
            That plaits the manes of horses in
            the night
            And bakes the elf-locks in foul
            sluttish hairs

He screams into the night.

                         MERCUTIO (CONT.)
            This is the hag, when maids lie on
            their backs,
            That presses them and learns them
            first to bear,
            Making them women of good carriage.
            This is she, this is she...

CLOSE ON: Mercutio.  He breaks off.  There is a strange
stillness amongst the group.  Romeo goes to his friend.

                         ROMEO
            Peace, peace, Mercutio, peace.
            Thou talkest of nothing.

Mercutio meets Romeo's gaze.

                         MERCUTIO
            True, I talk of dreams;
            Which are the children of an idle
            brain,
            Begot of nothing but vain fantasy.
            Which is as thin of substance as
            the air
            And more inconstant than the wind,
            who woos
            Even now the frozen bosom of the
            north
            And, being angered, puffs away from
            thence
            Turning his attention to the dew-
            dropping south.

CUT TO: Benvolio in the car.  The alcohol has caught up with
him and he looks a little queasy.

                         BENVOLIO
            This wind you talk of blows us from
            ourselves:
            Supper is done and we shall come
            too late.

Romeo looks toward the distant city.

                         ROMEO
            I fear, too early, for my mind
            misgives
            Some consequence yet hanging in the
            stars
            Shall bitterly begin his fearful
            date
            With this night's revels, and
            expire the term
            Of a despised life closed in my
            breast,
            By some vile forfeit of untimely
            death.

PAUSE: The water turns golden as fireworks explode across
the bay.  Romeo smiles.

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
            But he that hath the steerage of my
            course
            Direct my sail!

He takes the pill and drops it into his mouth.

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
            On, lusty gentlemen!

With the rush of a mind altering cocktail, we ZOOM IN on
Romeo's eyes; they shimmer with the shooting star reflection
of exploding fireworks - a bending Eastern chord, we launch
into Donna Summer's 'I Feel Love', sung by the vocalist from
Soundgarden with orchestration by 'Deconstruction' and sitar
by Ravi Shankar.

EXT.  MERCUTIO'S CAR - ON FREEWAY.  NIGHT.

PULL OUT: From Romeo's eyes.  He is lying in the passenger
seat of Mercutio's convertible as it rockets along the
freeway.  The camera is directly above Romeo.  He stares up
at the fireworks that reflect in the windshield.  The car
and freeway begin to rotate and the camera follows.  We feel
that the car is now travelling upside-down.  The camera
sways through a brilliant explosion of fireworks that fill
the screen with a zillion pixilating, colored dots of fire.

INT.  CAPULET'S MANSION - BALLROOM.  NIGHT.

PULL OUT: To discover the glittering dots of fire refracting
from the sparkling domed roof of the magnificently ornate
Capulet Ballroom.  The camera swoops down over bizarrely
costumed revellers cavorting to a driving Latin big band.
The camera partners with a drugged Mercutio and Benvolio who
shamelessly caper with each other in a mock antic adagio.

CUT TO: Romeo gazing blankly at the dance floor.

CUT TO: Mercutio.  He sweeps up a thirty-something
sophisticate and twirls her in Romeo's direction.

                         MERCUTIO
            Everyman betake him to his legs!

Romeo moves off through the crowd.

CUT TO: ROMEO'S P.O.V.: Contorted images of costumed guests
eat, drink and laugh in a grotesque collision of Yves Saint
Laurent cocktail party and Bacchanalian romp.

Suddenly a large arm coils around Romeo's neck.

DISTORTED EXTREME CLOSE UP: A seriously intoxicated Fulgencio
Capulet; his puffy red face squeezes against Romeo's.

                         CAPULET
            Ah, I have seen the day that I
            could
            Tell a whispering tale in a fair
            ladies ear.
            Such as would please.

Capulet screams above the music:

                         CAPULET (CONT.)
            Come musicians play!

Blood drums in Romeo's ears.  Breaking free from Capulet's
grasp as he pushes through the crowd toward the bathroom.

INT.  BATHROOM.  NIGHT.

Silent, underwater shot.  Romeo's tranquil features submerged
in a basin of water.

BEAT.

With a gasp, Romeo rises.  A moment.  His breathing calms.
Then, smoothing water into his hair, he gazes into the
bathroom mirror.  He turns:

The entire wall opposite the mirror, is a magnificent salt-
water fish tank.

Romeo, drawn by it's submarine beauty, leans against the
fish tank.  Applause echoes faintly through the bathroom
speakers.

INT.  BALLROOM.  NIGHT.

As the applause dies, a dark-haired Latina Diva takes the
spotlight.  The band ease into the opening bars of a love
ballad.

INT.  BATHROOM.  NIGHT.

As the music swells, Romeo watches a moustached catfish
glide past a medieval castle.

Suddenly, Romeo pulls away.  Peering back at him through the
castle is a pair of exquisitely beautiful angelic eyes.

The Diva's first pure, achingly beautiful notes soar.

Confused, Romeo looks again.  There is no mistake - it is a
girl.  Through a shimmering curtain of ribbon weed, two dark
wide eyes, a childish nose and sumptuous full lips.

Romeo pushes his face closer to the glass.  The other face
snaps abruptly away.

INT.  POWDER ROOM.  NIGHT.

CUT TO: Juliet, dressed as an angel, on the other side of
the tank.  We now realise that the girls' powder room and
the boys' bathroom are divided by this watery wonder world.

Juliet warily moves closer to the glass.

INT.  BATHROOM.  NIGHT.

Romeo leans his face against the glass.  The love ballad
builds.

SLOW TRACK: From Romeo's profile, in through the water, and...

INT.  POWDER ROOM.  NIGHT.

...out the other side, to find Juliet in profile, peering
into the tank.

INT.  BATHROOM.  NIGHT.

Romeo presses his nose lightly against the glass.

INT.  POWDER ROOM.  NIGHT.

Juliet; a tiny smile.

Suddenly, CRASH!  The door slams open.  Juliet turns,
startled.  It is the Nurse.

                         NURSE
            Juliet, your mother calls.

The Nurse bustles Juliet out the door.  Juliet looks over
her shoulder at the mystery boy.

INT.  BALLROOM.  NIGHT.

Romeo, now without his mask, slams out of the bathroom -
Juliet and the Nurse have disappeared into the crowd.

CUT TO: Juliet being dragged along by the Nurse.  She
glances back toward the mystery boy, but he is gone.

Juliet and the Nurse rejoin Dave Paris, who is dressed as an
astronaut, and Gloria, at the side of the dance floor.

Dave, irresistible smile, extends his hand to Juliet.

                         DAVE
            Will you now deny to dance?

Juliet looks to Dave, desperately searching for a reason to
decline.  Gloria, brushing aside her silly daughter's
protests, slugs the last of her champagne and corrals them
onto the dance floor.

                         GLORIA
                   (whispering to Juliet)
            A man, young lady, such a man.

As Juliet is dragged onto the floor her eyes furtively
search for the boy.

CUT TO: Romeo in the crowd.  Desperate to find the girl, he
roughly shunts aside a reveller dressed as Lucifer, Prince
of Darkness.

HOLD ON: Lucifer.  He removes his mask: it is Tybalt.  He
turns to Abra, who's dressed as a demon.

                         TYBALT
            What, dares the slave come hither
            to fleer and scorn at our solemnity?
            Now by the stock and honor of my
            kin
            To strike him dead I hold it not a
            sin.

Tybalt moves off aggressively, but is halted as Capulet
slams a hand into his chest.

                         CAPULET
            Why how now kinsman, wherefore
            storm you so?

                         TYBALT
            Uncle, this is that villain Romeo.
            A Montague, our foe.

Capulet peers across the ballroom.

                         CAPULET
            Young Romeo is it?

                         TYBALT
            'Tis he.

                         CAPULET
            Content thee gentle coz, let him
            alone.
            I would not for the wealth of all
            this town
            Here in my house do him
            disparagement.
            Therefore be patient; take no note
            of him.

Tybalt can't believe it.

                         TYBALT
            I'll not endure him.

CLOSE ON: Capulet, exploding with rage.
                         CAPULET
            He shall be endured!
                   (slapping Tybalt viciously)
            What, goodman boy!  I say he shall!
            Go to.

Capulet violently shoves Tybalt to the ground.

                         CAPULET
            You'll make a mutiny among my guests!

A middle aged couple look on shocked - Capulet waves to them
festively:

                         CAPULET
            What?  Cheerly my hearts!

Capulet snorts at Tybalt in disgust.

                         CAPULET
            You'll not endure him!  Am I the
            master here or you?  Go to.

Smoothing his hair into place, Capulet turns back into the
ballroom.

CLOSE ON: Tybalt choking back tears of rage.

CUT TO: Romeo moving through the crowd.  For a moment the
crush clears and he spies the Angel on the dance floor.

CLOSE ON: Romeo whispers:

                         ROMEO
            Did my heart love till now?
            Forswear it, sight.
            For I ne'er saw true beauty till
            this night.

Romeo begins to circumnavigate the dance floor in an attempt
to get closer to Juliet.

CUT TO: Dave slow dancing with Juliet.

Juliet's eyes search the room for the boy.

CLOSE ON: Romeo.

CLOSE ON: Juliet.

Their eyes connect.

Juliet looks quickly back to Dave who, oblivious, returns
his most devastating smile.

CUT TO: The songstress, her voice soars.

CUT TO: Juliet.  Unable to look away from the boy, she
stares over Dave's shoulder.

CUT TO: Romeo.  Ignoring the danger, he continues to move
toward the Angel.

With the Diva's spiralling final notes, the ballad concludes.

A complete black out.  As the crowd break into wild applause,
Juliet's eyes search the darkness, but the boy is gone.

The crowd cheers and screams its applause.  An avalanche of
balloons, tinsel and confetti rains down from the roof;
swathes of red silk drop from the ceiling and the space is
transformed.

CLOSE ON: Juliet, searching for the boy.

Suddenly: A gasp, Juliet's eyes widen, shocked.

In the dark, a hand has shot out from the drape curtaining
off the stage and clasped hers.  Juliet barely dares breathe.

She glances furtively to Dave Paris - he watches the stage.

Slowly Juliet turns toward the hand; there through a break
in the curtain she can see eye, cheek and lips of the
mystery boy.  As the Diva reprises the chorus, Romeo gently
pulls Juliet behind the curtain.

INT.  BEHIND CURTAIN.  NIGHT.

Concealed from the party by the red velvet drape, hands
still clasped, the teenagers are so close their bodies
almost touch.

                         ROMEO
            If I profane with my unworthiest
            hand
            This holy shrine, the gentle sin is
            this.
            My lips, two blushing pilgrims,
            ready stand
            To smooth that rough touch with a
            tender kiss.

Romeo moves his lips toward Juliet's.  She stops him.

                         JULIET
            Good pilgrim, you do wrong your
            hand too much,
            Which mannerly devotion shows in
            this.
            For saints have hands that pilgrim's
            hands do touch,
            And palm to palm is holy palmers'
            kiss.

                         ROMEO
            Have not saints lips, and holy
            palmers too?

                         JULIET
                   (a gentle scolding)
            Ay, pilgrim, lips that they must
            use in prayer.

                         ROMEO
            O, then, dear saint, let lips do
            what hands do,
            They pray: grant thou, lest faith
            turn to despair.

                         JULIET
            Saints do not move, though grant
            for prayer's sake.

                         ROMEO
            Then move not while my prayer's
            effect I take.

He kisses her.

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
            Thus from my lips, by thine my sin
            is purged.

                         JULIET
            Then have my lips the sin that they
            have took.

                         ROMEO
            Sin from my lips?  O trespass
            sweetly urged!
            Give me my sin again.

He kisses her.

                         JULIET
            You kiss by th' book.

They kiss again.

Suddenly a harsh light falls across the entwined couple.
They break apart - Nurse has pulled open the curtain and
stands eyeing them severely.

                         NURSE
            Madam, your mother craves a word
            with you.

We see that the party is breaking up.  But for groups of
die-hard revellers, the room is nearly empty.

                         NURSE (CONT.)
            Come, let's away.

She takes firm control of her charge.

Juliet furtively motions for the startled Romeo not to
follow as he trails them across the room.

CUT TO: ROMEO'S P.O.V.: The Nurse and Juliet reach the door,
but instead of leaving, they turn and ascend the staircase
that arcs around to the mezzanine level.  They join a vexed
Gloria Capulet who clings to a patient Dave Paris.

Inaudible words are exchanged.  Juliet flickers her eyes
nervously to Romeo.

CUT TO: Romeo.  He halts at the foot of the stairs unsure.

CUT TO: Gloria.  Catching Juliet's interest in the boy, she
indicates to her daughter to 'COME ALONG'.

CUT TO: Romeo; a dawning realisation.

                         ROMEO
                   (under his breath)
            Is she a Capulet?

CUT TO: Juliet.  She stops and turns back.

CUT TO: Romeo, comprehending the reality of who she is.

CUT TO: Juliet.  The Nurse whispers in her ear.

                         NURSE
            His name is Romeo, and a Montague,
            The only son of your great enemy.

An orchestral treatment of Joy Division's "Love will tear us
Apart" swells;

HOLD ON: Juliet.  Like a cloud passing across the sun, a
dark coldness descends upon her.

CUT TO: Mercutio.  He throws himself upon the shell shocked
Romeo.

                         MERCUTIO
            Away, begone, the sport is at its
            best.

Mercutio shuttles Romeo toward the door.

                         ROMEO
            Ay so I fear,

A covert glance over his shoulder.

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
            The more is my unrest.

EXT.  CAPULET MANSION.  NIGHT.

Mercutio bundles Romeo through the front door and down the
stairs to the waiting getaway car.

INT.  CAPULET MANSION - STAIRS ALCOVE WINDOW - NIGHT.

CUT TO: Juliet.  Manoeuvred by the Nurse up the stairs, she
breaks away and rushes to a tiny, windowed alcove.

EXT.  CAPULET MANSION - MAIN ENTRANCE.  NIGHT.

CUT TO: Mercutio's convertible and its noisy confederacy
joining the line of departing limos.

A huge sign combusts into blinding fireworks that write in
giant words "CAPULET."

As the convertible passes beneath the blazing words, Romeo
turns.  Through a deluge of falling sparks, he glimpses the
mystery girl high up in the tower.

EXT.  CAPULET MANSION - WINDOW.  NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: Juliet leaning out of the tower window.  Brilliant
sparkles light in her eyes.

PUSH IN: We hear her secret whisper:

                         JULIET
            My only love, sprung from my only
            hate.
            Too early seen unknown, and known
            too late.
            Prodigious birth of love it is to me

EXT.  CAPULET MANSION - MAIN ENTRANCE DRIVE.  NIGHT.

CUT TO: JULIET'S P.O.V.: In slow motion Romeo, through the
falling curtain of fiery embers.

                         JULIET (CONT.)(V/O)
            That I must love a loathed enemy.

EXT.  CAPULET MANSION - WINDOW.  NIGHT.

Warm wind blows the smoke from the expended fireworks.
Juliet closes the window and leans against the glass.

CRANE DOWN: The side of the building past revellers who
don't know when to leave.  Standing in the front doorway is
someone else who cannot take their eyes off the departing
Romeo.  It is Tybalt.  The music darkens as we push through
the smoky wind.

                         TYBALT
            I will withdraw.  But this intrusion
            shall,
            Now seeming sweet, convert to
            bitterest gall.

INT.  MERCUTIO'S CAR.  NIGHT.

Caught in the jam of departing vehicles, Mercutio's car
crawls along the bridge that links Capulet island with the
mainland.  The boys sing along raucously with the radio.

                         BOYS
            "I am a pretty piece of flesh,
            I am a pretty piece of flesh..."

PUSH IN: On Romeo, he whispers:

                         ROMEO
            Can I go forward when my heart is
            here?
            Turn back, dull earth, and find thy
            centre out.

Romeo leaps from the car.  Benvolio yells after him.

                         BENVOLIO
            Romeo!  Cousin Romeo!  Romeo!

EXT.  CAPULET BRIDGE.  NIGHT.

Romeo runs back along the bridge toward the estate.  At the
gates, armed guards supervise the exodus of vehicles.  Romeo
uses the traffic to shield himself from view.

Romeo leaps from the bridge and into the shadows at the base
of the high stone wall that borders the compound.

EXT.  CAPULET BRIDGE.  NIGHT.

Mercutio's car prowls back along the bridge.  The last
guests have departed and the gates are swinging shut.  The
convertible halts in front of them.

                         BENVOLIO
            He ran this way.  Call, good
            Mercutio.

                         MERCUTIO
            Nay, I'll conjure too.

Mercutio leaps from the car.  He postures like a magician in
a low-budget variety special.  The boys cheer him on.

                         MERCUTIO
            Romeo!  Humours!  Madman!  Passion!
            Lover!
            I conjure thee by Rosaline's bright
            eyes,
            By her high forehead and her
            scarlet lip,
            By her fine foot, straight leg, and
            quivering thigh.
            And the demesnes that there adjacent
            lie,
            That in thy likeness thou appear to
            us!

EXT.  CAPULET WALL.  NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: Romeo's fake chain mail shirt tangled in the
barbed wire at the top of the wall.

PAN DOWN: Romeo, now on the other side of the wall, pulls up
his undershirt and gingerly inspects the cuts inflicted by
the wire.

Mercutio's cavorting echoes from the bridge.  Romeo smiles
ironically.

                         ROMEO
            He jests at scars that never felt a
            wound.

Romeo moves off through the darkened grounds of Capulet
estate.

EXT.  CAPULET BRIDGE.  NIGHT.

The boys laugh hysterically as Mercutio staggers around the
bridge in imitation of a love sick fool.

                         MERCUTIO
            O Romeo, that she were, O that she
            were
            An open-arse and thou a poperin pear!

The hilarity is abruptly arrested as a security spotlight
blazes to life, pinning Mercutio in its beam.  The sound of
automatic weapons cocking pierces the night.

CLOSE ON: Mercutio.  He's brave but not stupid.  He gets
back into the car.

                         MERCUTIO (CONT.)
            Come, shall we go?

EXT.  THE BACK OF CAPULET MANSION.  NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: A pair of stone cherubs on top of the retaining
wall of a terraced garden.  Romeo's face appears between them.

Romeo hauls himself up onto the wall.  Below is a Greco-
Roman style pool area.  To the right the darkened rear wing
of Capulet Mansion.  Suddenly the back of the house explodes
with light.  Romeo takes cover.

                         ROMEO
            But soft, what light through yonder
            window breaks?

Romeo's question is answered as out onto the verandah comes
Juliet.  She is still clad in her angel robe, but without
the halo and wings.  She slowly descends to pool level.

                         ROMEO
            It is the East, and Juliet is the
            sun!
            Arise, fair sun, and kill the
            envious moon,
            Who is already sick and pale with
            grief
            That thou her maid art far more
            fair than she.
            Be not her maid, since she is
            envious.
            Her vestal livery is but sick and
            green,
            And none but fools do wear it.
Juliet stands on the top step of the pool stairs.  She is
directly below Romeo as he whispers.

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
            Cast it off!

Juliet sits on the edge of the pool, her legs dangle in the
water.

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
            It is my lady.  O, it is my love!
            O that she knew she were!

Juliet sighs.

                         JULIET
            Ay me!

                         ROMEO
                   (whispers)
            She speaks.
            O, speak again, bright angel!

Juliet looks longingly toward the stars.

                         JULIET
            O Romeo, Romeo! - Whyfore art thou
            Romeo?
            Deny thy father and refuse thy
            name.
            Or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn
            my love,
            And I'll no longer be a Capulet.

CLOSE ON: Romeo.  Incredulous.

                         ROMEO
            Shall I hear more, or shall I speak
            at this?

                         JULIET
            'Tis but thy name that is my enemy.
            Thou are thyself, though not a
            Montague.
            What's Montague?  It is not hand
            nor foot
            Nor arm nor face nor any other part
            Belonging to a man.  O, be some
            other name!
            What's in a name?
            That which we call a rose
            By any other word would smell as
            sweet.
            So Romeo would, were he not Romeo
            called,
            Retain that dear perfection which
            he owes
            Without that title.  Romeo, doff
            thy name,
            And for thy name, which is no part
            of thee,
            Take all myself.

Romeo wildly calls:

                         ROMEO
            I take thee at thy word!
            Call me but love, and I'll be new
            baptised.
            Henceforth I never will be Romeo.

Romeo jumps down from the wall.  Juliet screams, and turns,
toppling backwards.  Romeo grabs her hand but her momentum
overbalances him and they both plunge headlong into the pool.

EXT.  CAPULET MANSION - POOL - UNDERWATER.  NIGHT.

Underwater shot:  A slow motion phosphorescent tangle of
arms, legs and bodies.

EXT.  CAPULET MANSION - BACK GARDEN.  NIGHT.

CUT TO: A security guard.  Alerted by the noise he moves
toward the pool area.

EXT.  CAPULET MANSION - POOL GARDEN - NIGHT.

CUT TO: Above water, real time: Romeo and Juliet surface
spluttering.  Juliet thrashes the water in an attempt to get
distance from her attacker.

                         JULIET
            What man art thou that, thus
            bescreened in night,
            So stumblest on my counsel?

Romeo: A calming gesture as he tries to tread water.

                         ROMEO
            By a name I know not how to tell
            thee who I am:
            My name, dear saint, is hateful to
            myself
            Because it is an enemy to thee.
The ferocious barking of a guard dog arrests the teenagers
attention.  A moment, then they slide beneath the water.

CUT TO: The security guard and dog appearing above the pool
area.

GUARD'S P.O.V.: The rippling surface of the water.

CUT TO - UNDERWATER SHOT: Romeo and Juliet submerged, hair
streaming, stare at each other like two beautiful fish.

CUT TO: The guard.  He can see noisy caterers cleaning up
around the other side of the house.  Frowning, he returns
the way he came.

CUT TO: Romeo and Juliet.  Gasping for air, they cautiously
surface.  A moment - then Juliet, a small smile.

                         JULIET
            Art thou not Romeo, and a Montague?

                         ROMEO
            Neither, fair maid, if either thee
            dislike.

Juliet looks nervously toward the house.  She drags Romeo
toward a small grotto at the end of the pool.

                         JULIET
            How cam'st thou hither, tell me,
            and whyfore?
            The garden walls are high and hard
            to climb,
            And the place death, considering
            who thou art.

                         ROMEO
                   (with splashy bravado)
            With love's light wings did I o'er
            perch these walls.
            For stony limits cannot hold love
            out,
            And what love can do, that dares
            love attempt.
            Therefore thy kinsmen are no stop
            to me.

Juliet drags Romeo firmly into the grotto.

                         JULIET
                   (a real fear)
            If they do see thee, they will
            murder thee.

Romeo slowly pulls Juliet toward him.

                         ROMEO
            I have night's cloak to hide me
            from their eyes.
            And but thou love me, let them find
            me here.
            My life were better ended by their
            hate
            Than death prorogued, wanting of
            thy love.

The lovers kiss long and deep.  Then Juliet, suddenly
fearful, pushes Romeo away.

                         JULIET
            Thou knowest the mask of night is
            on my face,
            Else would a maiden blush bepaint
            my cheek,
            For that which thou hast heard me
            speak tonight.
            Fain would I dwell on form - fain,
            fain deny
            What I have spoke.  But farewell
            compliment!
            Dost thou love me?

Romeo tries to speak, Juliet silences him.

                         JULIET (CONT.)
            I know thou wilt say 'Ay', and I
            will take thy word.  Yet, if thou
            swearest,
            Thou mayst prove false.  O gentle
            Romeo,
            If thou dost love, pronounce it
            faithfully.
            Or if thou think'st I am too
            quickly won,
            I'll frown, and be perverse, and
            say thee nay,
            So thou wilt woo.  But else, not
            for the world.
            In truth, fair Montague, I am too
            fond,
            And therefore thou mayst think my
            'haviour light.
            But trust me, gentleman, I'll prove
            more true
            Than those that have more cunning
            to be strange.

                         ROMEO
            Lady, by yonder blessed moon I vow,
            That tips with silver all these
            fruit-tree tops -

                         JULIET
            O, swear not by the moon, th'
            inconstant moon,
            That monthly changes in her circled
            orb,
            Lest that thy love prove likewise
            variable.

                         ROMEO
            What shall I swear by?

                         JULIET
            Do not swear at all.
            Or if thou wilt, swear by thy
            gracious self,
            Which is the god of my idolatry,
            And I'll believe thee.

She touches his cheek.  Romeo moves his lips close.

                         ROMEO
            If my heart's dear love -

Confused, Juliet breaks away.

                         JULIET
            Well, do not swear.  Although I joy
            in thee,
            I have no joy of this contract
            tonight.
            It is too rash, too unadvised, too
            sudden;
            Too like the lightning, which doth
            cease to be
            Ere one can say 'it lightens.'
            Sweet, good night.
            This bud of love, by summer's
            ripening breath,
            May prove a beauteous flower when
            next we meet.
            Good night, good night.  As sweet
            repose and rest
            Come to thy heart as that within my
            breast.

She rushes up the stairs - Romeo follows desperately.

                         ROMEO
            O, wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?

Juliet - a shocked look.

                         JULIET
            What satisfaction canst thou have
            tonight?

CLOSE ON: Romeo.

                         ROMEO
            The exchange of thy love's faithful
            vow for mine.

CLOSE ON: Juliet.  She runs joyously to Romeo.

                         JULIET
            I gave thee mind before thou didst
            request it!

Kissing him passionately.

                         JULIET (CONT.)
            And yet I would it were to give
            again.

                         ROMEO
            Wouldst thou withdraw it?  For what
            purpose love?

                         JULIET
            But to be frank and give it thee
            again.

They kiss again.  The Nurse calls from inside.

                         NURSE (O/S)
            Juliet!

Juliet looks to the house.

                         JULIET
                   (breathlessly)
            Three words, dear Romeo, and good
            night indeed.
            If that thy bent of love be
            honourable.
            Thy purpose marriage, send me word
            tomorrow,
            By one that I'll procure to come to
            thee,
            Where and what time thou wilt
            perform the rite,
            And all my fortunes at thy foot
            I'll lay
            And follow thee my lord throughout
            the world.

                         NURSE (O/S)
            Madam!

                         JULIET
            I come, anon - But if thou meanest
            not well,
            I do beseech thee...

                         NURSE (O/S)
            Madam!

                         JULIET
                   (to Nurse)
            By and by I come!
            To cease thy strife and leave me to
            my grief.
            Tomorrow will I send.

Romeo holds Juliet's gaze.

                         ROMEO
            So thrive my soul.

                         NURSE (O/S)
            Madam!

Juliet breaks away.

                         JULIET
            A thousand times good night!

With a final kiss, Juliet runs inside.

                         ROMEO
            A thousand times the worse, to want
            thy light.
            Love goes toward love as schoolboys
            from their books;
            But love from love, toward school
            with heavy looks.

Juliet re-appears at the upper balcony.

                         JULIET
            Romeo!  What o'clock tomorrow
            Shall I send to thee?

                         ROMEO
            By the hour of nine.

Juliet unclasps a delicate silver necklace from around her
neck.

                         JULIET
            I will not fail. 'Tis twenty year
            till then.
            Goodnight, goodnight!  Parting is
            such sweet sorrow.
            That I shall say goodnight till it
            be morrow.

She lets the necklace fall from her hand.  Romeo catches it
and she is gone.

                         ROMEO
            Sleep dwell upon thine eyes, peace
            in thy breast,
            Would I were sleep and peace, so
            sweet to rest.

INT.  GREENHOUSE.  DAWN.

Morning sunlight filters through the lush foliage of a
tropical rainforest.

PAN DOWN: As we hear:

                         FATHER LAURENCE (O/S)
            O mickle is the powerful grace that
            lies
            In plants, herbs, stones, and their
            true qualities.

We discover the intensely concentrating features of FATHER
LAURENCE.  Fifties, wiry and wearing a priest's collar,
Laurence delicately makes an incision in the bulb of a small
purple flowered plant.

A pair of fresh faced ten year old boys look on in wonderment
as a vivid blue sap oozes from the incision.

                         FATHER LAURENCE (CONT.)
            Within the infant rind of this weak
            flower
            Poison hath residence, and medicine
            power.

PULL BACK: The Priest carefully gathers the sap into a
beaker.  We discover that we are in a small tropical
greenhouse.

                         FATHER LAURENCE (CONT.)
                   (to the boys)
            For this, being smelt, with that
            part cheers each part;
            Being tasted, stays all senses with
            the heart.
The boys follow the Father as he moves out of the greenhouse
and into an adjoining work area.  The walls are lined with
bottles of herbs and dried plants and a television flickers
in the corner.

                         FATHER LAURENCE (CONT.)
            For naught so vile on the earth
            doth live,
            But to the earth some special good
            doth give;

With the precision of a chemist, Father Laurence funnels the
sap into a small bottle and places it in the refrigerator.
From out of the refrigerator he produces a large jar of
candy.  He eyes the boys sternly.

                         FATHER LAURENCE (CONT.)
            Nor aught so good but, strained
            from that fair use,
            Revolts from true birth, stumbling
            on abuse.

The boys take their candy and scram.

CUT TO: The muted television.  A morning news program shows
footage of a murder scene cordoned off with police tape.  A
distraught mother is being restrained.

CLOSE ON: The priest contemplating the television.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            Two such opposed kings encamp them
            still
            In man as well as herbs: grace and
            rude will;
            And where the worser is predominant,
            Full soon the canker death eats up
            that plant.

A feverish knocking breaks the priest's reverie.

                         ROMEO (O/S)
            Good morrow, father!

Father Laurence snaps off the television and exits the
workroom.

EXT.  WALL.  DAWN.

Romeo, dressed in last night's chain mail, pounds desperately
on a wooden door set into a high stone wall.

                         ROMEO
            Good morrow, father!

EXT.  COURTYARD.  DAWN.

From the workroom, Father Laurence enters a courtyard which
encloses a tranquil tropical garden.  He opens a door in the
wall of the courtyard and smiles as the costumed Romeo
bursts in.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            Benedicite!
            What early tongue so sweet saluteth
            me?

Without pausing, the priest continues through the courtyard
and toward the church.

                         FATHER LAURENCE (CONT.)
            Young son, it argues a distempered
            head
            So soon to bid good morrow to thy
            bed.
            Or if not so, then here I hit it
            right -
            Our Romeo hath not been in bed
            tonight.

The priest enters the back of the church.

INT.  SACRISTY.  DAWN.

Romeo, on fire to tell of his experience, follows the priest
into the sacristy.

                         ROMEO
            The last is true.  The sweeter rest
            was mine.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
                   (he stops)
            God pardon sin!  Wast thou with
            Rosaline?

                         ROMEO
            With Rosaline, my ghostly father?
            No.
            I have forgot that name and that
            name's woe.

The Father lays out the cut glass bottles and communion tray
for mass.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            That's my good son!  But where hast
            thou been then?

Unconsciously, Romeo helps the priest prepare.  It is clear
he knows the routine by heart.

                         ROMEO
            I have been feasting with mine
            enemy,
            Where on a sudden one hath wounded
            me.
            That's by me wounded.  Both our
            remedies
            Within they help and holy physic
            lies.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
                   (buttoning a long
                   black cassock)
            Be plain, good son, and homely in
            thy drift.
            Riddling confession finds but
            riddling shrift.

                         ROMEO
            Then plainly know my heart's dear
            love is set,
            On the fair daughter of rich
            Capulet.
            We met, we wooed, and made exchange
            of vow,
            I'll tell thee as we pass.  But
            this I pray,
            That thou consent to marry us today.

CUT TO: The Priest, thunderstruck.  The two kids, now
dressed in red altar-boy robes, enter.

                         ALTAR BOYS
            Good morrow, Romeo.

The apoplectic priest waves the boys away.  They get the
message and bolt.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            Holy Saint Francis!  What a change
            is here!
            Is Rosaline, that thou didst love
            so dear,
            So soon foresaken?  Young men's
            love then lies
            Not truly in their hearts, but in
            their eyes.

                         ROMEO
            Thou chid'st me oft for loving
            Rosaline.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
                   (very angry)
            For doting, not for loving, pupil
            mine.

                         ROMEO
            I pray thee chide me not.  Her I
            love now
            Doth grace for grace and love for
            love allow.
            The other did not so.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            O, she knew well
            Thy love did read by rote, that
            could not spell.

The Father falls into a chair and considers.  He looks
through the sacristy door to where a small children's choir
has assembled.  Their angelic voices soar into the purest of
hymns.

                         CHOIR
            How can you just leave me standing
            Alone in a world so cold,
            Maybe I'm just too demanding,
            Maybe I'm just like my father, too
            bold,
            Maybe you're just like my mother,
            She's never satisfied.
            Why do we scream at each other?
            This is what it sounds like when
            doves cry...

We recognise the hymn as "When Doves Cry" by Prince.

PUSH IN: On the Priest; moved, he looks to Romeo.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            But come, young waverer, come, go
            with me.
            In one respect I'll thy assistant
            be.
            For this alliance may so happy
            prove
            To turn your households' rancor to
            pure love.

Romeo hurriedly assists the priest with his vestments.

                         ROMEO
            O, let us hence!  I stand on sudden
            haste.

Father Laurence holds Romeo in his powerful gaze.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            Wisely and slow.  They stumble that
            run fast.

The procession is joined by the two little altar boys and
the mass begins.

EXT.  VERONA BEACH.  DAY.

As the Angelic voices of the choir soar, we see a pay phone
etched with hyper-real starkness against the white sand,
green sea and blue sky.

A single leaning palm tree frames the image like a ridiculous
tourist postcard.

Benvolio speaks on the pay phone.  Mercutio, torso naked but
for his holstered Sports Rapier 9mm, drums his fingers on
the side of the booth.

                         MERCUTIO
            Where the devil should this Romeo
            be?
            Came he not home tonight?

                         BENVOLIO
                   (slamming down the phone)
            Not to his father's.  I spoke with
            his man.

Mercutio storms off down the beach.

                         MERCUTIO
            Why, that same pale hard-hearted
            wench, that Rosaline,
            Torments him so that he will sure
            run mad.

                         BENVOLIO
                   (running to keep up)
            Tybalt hath sent a letter to his
            father's house.

                         MERCUTIO
                   (halts abruptly)
            A challenge, on my life.

CLOSE ON: Benvolio, unsure.

                         BENVOLIO
            Romeo will answer it?

                         MERCUTIO
            Any man that can write may answer a
            letter.

                         BENVOLIO
            Nay, he will answer the letter's
            master, how he dares, being dared.

Mercutio clamps Benvolio into a headlock.

                         MERCUTIO
            Alas, poor Romeo, he is already
            dead!
            Stabbed with a white wench's black
            eye,

He whispers into Benvolio's ear:

                         MERCUTIO (CONT.)
            Run through the ear with a love
            song.
                   (in disgust)
            And is he a man to encounter Tybalt?

                         BENVOLIO
                   (struggling to break free)
            Why, what is Tybalt?

                         MERCUTIO
                   (releasing him)
            More than Prince of Cats, I can
            tell you.
            O, he's the courageous captain of
            compliments.
            The very butcher of a silk button.

Lightening fast, Mercutio draws his gun.  He twirls it in an
impressive display of gunmanship which ends with the barrel
between the startled Benvolio's eyes.

                         MERCUTIO (CONT.)
            A duellist, a duellist.

Romeo's car pulls into the beach side parking lot.  Benvolio
heads toward it.

                         BENVOLIO
            Here comes Romeo, here comes Romeo!

EXT.  BEACH - PARKING LOT.  DAY.

Romeo alights from his car and throws his keys to Balthasar
who lounges outside the beach side hang.  Mercutio saunters
up the beach with mock nonchalance.

                         MERCUTIO
            Signor Romeo, Bonjour.  There's a
            French salutation to your French
            slop.  You gave us the counterfeit
            fairly last night.

                         ROMEO
            Good morrow to you both.  What
            counterfeit did I give you?

                         MERCUTIO
            The slip, sir, the slip.  Can you
            not conceive?

Romeo smiles smugly.

                         ROMEO
            Pardon, good Mercutio.  My business
            was great, and in such a case as
            mine a man may strain courtesy.

                         MERCUTIO
                   (sarcastically)
            A most courteous exposition.

                         ROMEO
            Nay I am the very pink of courtesy.

                         MERCUTIO
                   (camply)
            Pink for flower?

The boys laugh.  Romeo feigns anger.

                         ROMEO
            I will bite thee on the ear for
            that jest!

Mercutio, goading Romeo to follow, backs off down the beach.

                         MERCUTIO
            Come between us, good Benvolio!  My
            wits faint.

Mercutio flicks sand at Romeo, then sprints off down the
beach.  Romeo, laughing, gives chase.

                         ROMEO
            Switch and spurs, switch and spurs,
            or I'll cry a match.

EXT.  BEACH - SHORELINE.  DAY.

Romeo is gaining on Mercutio, who runs headlong into the sea.
With a yell, Romeo dives in after him.

EXT.  BEACH - AT SEA.  DAY.

Mercutio splashes the laughing Romeo.

                         MERCUTIO
            Why, is not this better now than
            groaning for love?

Romeo tries to dunk Mercutio.

                         MERCUTIO (CONT.)
            Now art thou sociable.

Mercutio, evading, heads for shore.

                         MERCUTIO (CONT.)
            Now art thou Romeo.  Now art thou...

EXT.  BEACH - SHORELINE.  DAY.

Romeo tackles Mercutio on the wet sand.  Mercutio falls
suddenly serious.

                         MERCUTIO (CONT.)
                   (quietly)
            What thou art, by art as well as by
            nature.

A moment between the boys.  A shadow falls across them.
Romeo looks up.

                         ROMEO
            Here's goodly gear.

Standing above the boys is the Nurse.  She wears a
ridiculous, all red, "Jackie O" style disguise of sunglasses,
scarf and parasol.

                         MERCUTIO
                   (bemused)
            God ye good e'en fair gentlewoman.

The nurse, ignoring Mercutio, speaks dramatically to Romeo.

                         NURSE
            I desire some confidence with you.

She turns and walks back to the parking lot where Peter the
chauffer waits beside the limousine.

Benvolio and the other boys look on curiously.

                         MERCUTIO
            A bawd, a bawd, a bawd!  So ho!

But Romeo rises and to the amazement of Mercutio actually
follows this woman.  Mercutio looks questioningly to
Benvolio, who shrugs.

                         BENVOLIO
            She will endite him to some supper?

Even more strangely, Romeo gets into the limousine.

                         MERCUTIO
                   (taken by surprise)
            Romeo, will you come to your
            father's?
            We'll to dinner thither.

                         ROMEO
                   (as he closes the door)
            I will follow you.

                         MERCUTIO
            Farewell, ancient lady.  Farewell.

The car pulls away.

EXT.  STREET.  DAY.

The limousine drives through Verona Beach.

INT.  MOVING LIMOUSINE.  DAY.

CLOSE ON: Romeo jammed into the corner of the seat.  The
Nurse's face is pressed alarmingly close to his.  She speaks
in cold deadly earnest.

                         NURSE
            If ye should lead her in a fool's
            paradise, as they say, it were a
            very gross kind of behavior, as
            they say.  For the gentlewoman is
            young; and therefore, if you should
            deal double with her, truly it were
            an ill thing and very weak dealing.

BEAT: Romeo chooses his words carefully.

                         ROMEO
            Bid her to come to confession this
            afternoon,
            And there she shall at Friar
            Laurence's cell
            Be shrived and
                   (PUSH IN ON: Romeo)
            married.

INT.  JULIET'S BEDROOM.  DAY.

CLOSE ON: Juliet's face peering out her bedroom window.

                         JULIET
            O God she comes!

EXT.  CAPULETS MANSION - DRIVEWAY.  DAY.

PULL BACK: JULIET'S P.O.V.: The limousine pulls up at the
front door, the Nurse alights.

Juliet bolts from the room.

INT.  LANDING.  DAY.

Juliet hurries down the stairs - the Nurse, a way ahead,
disappears into a doorway.

INT.  STAIRWAY.  DAY.

Juliet races down a dark stairwell that leads to the bowels
of the house.

INT.  KITCHEN.  DAY.

The kitchen, obviously the Nurse's domain, is decorated with
a mixture of religious iconography and travel posters.  Most
of the posters depict a strange city of decadent, decaying,
beauty.

Juliet bursts breathlessly into the room.

                         JULIET
            O honey nurse, what news?

The Nurse, buried up to her ample hips inside the
refrigerator, does not turn around.

Juliet cries impatiently.

                         JULIET
            Nurse!

The nurse emerges from the ice box laden with food.  Moving
to the counter she starts to make a sandwich.

                         NURSE
            I am aweary, give me leave awhile.
            Fie, how my bones ache.  What a
            jaunce have I.

Juliet under her breath.

                         JULIET
            I would thou hadst my bones and I
            thy news.

Juliet goes to the nurse.

                         JULIET
            Nay come, I pray thee, speak: good;
            good
            Nurse, speak.

Sandwich made, the nurse shuffles over to a corner couch.

                         NURSE
            Jesu, what haste.  Can you not stay
            awhile?
            Can you not see I am out of breath?

Juliet cannot stand the suspense any longer.

                         JULIET
            How art thou out of breath when
            thou hast breath
            To say to me that thou art out of
            breath!
            Is the news good or bad?  Answer to
            that.

The Nurse takes a big bite from her sandwich and answers
through thoughtful chews.

                         NURSE
            Well, you have made a simple
            choice.
            You know not how to choose a man.
            Romeo?  No, not he.
            Though his face be better than any
            man's, yet his leg excels all men's
            and for a hand and a foot and a
            body, though they be not to be
            talked on, yet they are past
            compare.
            He's not the flower of courtesy,
            but I'll warrant him as gentle as a
            lamb.  Go thy ways, wench, serve
            God.  What, have you dined at home?

Juliet is flabbergasted.

                         JULIET
            No, no.  But all this I did know
            before.  What says he of our
            marriage?  What of that

                         NURSE
            Lord how my head aches!  What a
            head have I:
            My back -

This is a game that Juliet knows well.  She moves behind the
Nurse and begins massaging her back.

                         NURSE (CONT.)
            o' t'other side - ah, my back!
            Beshrew your heart for sending me
            about
            To catch my death with jauncing up
            and down.

With sublime self control, Juliet coo's sweetly.

                         JULIET
            I'faith I am sorry that thou art
            not well.
            Sweet, sweet, sweet Nurse, tell me,
            what says my love?

                         NURSE
            Your love says like an honest
            gentleman,
            And a courteous, and a kind, and a
            handsome,
            And I warrant a virtuous - Where is
            your mother?

Juliet cracks.

                         JULIET
            Where is my mother?  How oddly thou
            repliest!
            'Your love says, like an honest
            gentleman, "Where is your mother"'!

The nurse sulks.

                         NURSE
            O God's lady dear are you so hot?
            Henceforth do your messages yourself.

Juliet's frustration explodes.

                         JULIET
            Here's such a coil!  COME WHAT SAYS
            ROMEO?

PAUSE: The Nurse considers Juliet.

                         NURSE
            Have you got leave to go to
            confession today?

                         JULIET
            I have.

                         NURSE
            Then hie you hence to Father
            Laurence cell.
            There stays a husband to make you a
            wife!

Juliet, with a scream of joy, hugs the Nurse to her.

HOLD ON: Juliet's ecstatic features.

INT.  CHURCH.  DAY.

TIGHT ON: FATHER LAURENCE:

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            These violent delights have violent
            ends!

PULL BACK: Father Laurence is preaching energetically from
the pulpit.  Hidden from the congregation, Romeo waits in a
small alcove chapel at the side of the altar.

                         FATHER LAURENCE (CONT.)
            The sweetest honey
            Is loathsome in its own
            deliciousness,
            Therefore love moderately.

The Father glances toward Romeo.

                         FATHER LAURENCE (CONT.)
            Long love doth so.
            Too swift arrives as tardy as too
            slow.
Juliet pushes through the double doors at the far end of the
church.

Father Laurence motions to the middle-aged choir master who
leads the choir into a choral version of Led Zeppelin's "A
Whole Lot of Love" with Latin lyrics.

Father Laurence hurries from the altar over to Romeo.

                         FATHER LAURENCE (CONT.)
            Here comes the lady.

Juliet bursts into the tiny chapel.  Trying to observe a
vestige of decorum, she greets Father Laurence.

                         JULIET
            Good afternoon to my ghostly
            confessor.

But before the priest can reply, the two lovers embrace,
kissing passionately.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
                   (dryly)
            Romeo shall thank thee, daughter,
            for us both.

The choir completes the hymn and the priest, realising it is
his cue, rushes back to the altar.  He quickly delivers a
prayer to the congregation while eyeing the increasingly
amorous smooching of the young couple.

The choir launch into a joyous chorus and the priest returns
to Romeo and Juliet.  He delicately parts the couple.

                         FATHER LAURENCE (CONT.)
            Come, come, and we will make short
            work.
            For, by your leaves, you shall not
            stay alone
            Till Holy Church incorporate two in
            one.

A young boy with a voice like Jamiroquai steps forward.  He
launches into a wailing solo.

MACRO CLOSE UP: A simple silver ring.  Engraved on the
inside of the band are the words 'I love thee.'

PULL BACK: Romeo slips the ring onto Juliet's finger as the
priest executes the formal sacrament of marriage.
INT./EXT.  CHURCH.  DAY.

CRANE UP: Through the majestic patterning of stained glass,
and out of the church to find Peter, the chauffeur, cradling
a small camera as he waits nervously beside the limo.

EXT.  CHURCH.  DAY.

The music swells in celebration.  Romeo and Juliet, now
newly-wed, rush from the side door of the church.  The
priest follows, throwing handfuls of rice.  Peter studiously
takes a snap as the bride and groom kiss.

Peter holds the door of the limousine open.  Reluctantly
Juliet gets into the car.

As the car pulls out of the driveway, Romeo runs alongside.

HOLD: On Romeo as he watches the big black car speed away.

EXT.  UNDERWATER.  DAY.

FISH-EYE VIEW: From the bottom of the ocean; Mercutio's
distorted features.  Gun aimed, he stares intently into the
water.

A muffled BANG! and a bullet whizzes past the camera.

EXT.  VERONA BEACH.  DAY.

We see that Mercutio - wading in knee deep water close to
the beach - is hunting fish.

Benvolio shelters in the shade of an unmanned life guard
tower.

A shimmering heat haze blankets the deserted beach and the
horizon is stacked with purple storm clouds.

                         BENVOLIO
            I pray thee, good Mercutio, let's
            retire.
            The day is hot,

Mercutio, ignoring him, plugs away at another fish.  Benvolio
nervously looks to see if there is any reaction to the sound
of the shot.

                         BENVOLIO (CONT.)
            The Capels are abroad.  And if we
            meet we shall not 'scape a brawl.

Mercutio strides out of the water.

                         MERCUTIO
            Thou art like one of these fellows
            that, when he enters the confines
            of a tavern, claps me his sword
            upon the table and says 'God send
            me no need of thee!'
                   (he hands Benvolio
                   his gun)
            and by the operation of the second
            cup draws him on the drawer, when
            indeed there is no need.

Another incredible sleight of hand routine and Mercutio has
managed to draw Benvolio's pistol, retrieve his own gun, and
trap Benvolio with a barrel at each temple.

The joke has worn thin for Benvolio; he pushes past Mercutio
toward where Balthasar, Sampson and Gregory lounge in the
shade of the beach-side hang.

Suddenly he stops dead - a monstrous black sedan prowls into
the beach side parking lot.

                         BENVOLIO
            By my head, here comes the Capulets.

                         MERCUTIO
            By my heel, I care not.

EXT.  BEACH - PARKING LOT.  DAY.

The sedan mounts the curb and slides to a halt only metres
from Benvolio and Mercutio.

Tybalt, Abra and Petruchio alight from the sedan and walk
menacingly toward Mercutio and Benvolio.

                         TYBALT
            Gentlemen, good day.  A word with
            one of you.

The boys from the hang, drawn the Capulet car, converge -
eyes dart nervously, hands stray towards guns.

Mercutio smiles mockingly.

                         MERCUTIO
            And but one word with one of us?
            Couple it with something.  Make it
            a word and a...

Leaning close to Tybalt, he camps the implication.

                         MERCUTIO (CONT.)
            ...blow.

Mercutio scores.  The boys laugh.

                         TYBALT
                   (furious)
            You shall find me apt enough to
            that, sir,
                   (clutching at his
                   side arm)
            And you will give me occasion.

CLOSE ON: Mercutio.  He stops, eyeing the hand on the gun.
No one moves.

                         MERCUTIO
                   (a breathy, coquettish
                   voice)
            Could you not take some occasion
            without giving?

The boys fall about again.  Tybalt cracks.

                         TYBALT
            Mercutio, thou consortest with Romeo.

The accusation stings - Mercutio's anger flares.

                         MERCUTIO
            Consort?  What, dost thou make us
            minstrels?  And thou make minstrels
            of us look to hear nothing but
            discords.  Here's my fiddlestick.

Indicating his holstered gun.

                         MERCUTIO (CONT.)
            Here's that shall make you dance.
                   (barking at Tybalt)
            Zounds,
                   (goading him to go
                   for his gun)
            consort!

CLOSE ON: Tybalt.

CLOSE ON: Mercutio.  He will not back down.  Benvolio tries
to diffuse things.

                         BENVOLIO
            Either withdraw unto some private
            place.
            Or reason coldly of your grievances.
            Here all eyes gaze on us.

                         MERCUTIO
            Men's eyes were made to look, and
            let them gaze.
            I will not budge for no man's
            pleasure, I.

At that moment, Romeo's car pulls into the lot.  Tybalt
smiles.

                         TYBALT
            Well sir, here comes my man.

Tybalt moves toward Romeo who bounds from his car full of
happy news.

                         TYBALT
            Romeo, the love I bear thee can
            afford
            No better term than this:

CLOSE ON: Tybalt.  He clears his jacket from his side arm
and issues the challenge.

                         TYBALT (CONT.)
            Thou art a villain!

CLOSE ON: Mercutio.

CLOSE ON: Benvolio.

All eyes are on Romeo.

Romeo calmly approaches his now cousin.

                         ROMEO
            Tybalt, the reason that I have to
            love thee
            Doth much excuse the appertaining
            rage
            To such a greeting: villain am I
            none,
            Therefore farewell.  I see thou
            knowest me not.

Romeo turns, and to the amazement of all, walks back to his
car.  Tybalt, unable to shoot him in the back, is confused.
He hurls himself into his sedan.

Kicking it into a sand spraying U-turn, he careens the short
distance to Romeo's car.  Slamming into the back of it he
blocks Romeo in.

Tybalt leaps out, maniacally kicking at bumper, door and
headlights.  Romeo flicks the locks down.  Tybalt shatters
the side window and hauls Romeo through the door, slamming
him against the savaged fuselage.

                         TYBALT
            Boy, this shall not excuse the
            injuries
            That thou hast done me!

He smashes Romeo across the face, Romeo crashes to the
roadway.

                         TYBALT
                   (yelling)
            Turn and draw.

A cut has opened in the side of Romeo's mouth.  He unsteadily
lifts himself up, and meeting Tybalt's gaze, speaks through
bloodied teeth.

                         ROMEO
            I never injured thee,
            And so, good Capulet, which name I
            tender
            As dearly as mine own...

Romeo cautiously extracts his gun...

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
            ...be satisfied.

...and throws it at Tybalt's feet.

Storm clouds obscure the sun as Romeo turns and walks from
the parking lot.

Mercutio, Benvolio and the others cannot believe their eyes.

                         MERCUTIO
            O calm, dishonourable, vile
            submission!

EXT.  BEACH - VACANT LOT.  DAY.

Tybalt's anger must be answered.  He ceremoniously disarms,
gives his weapon to Abra, and sprints after Romeo who is now
passing a beach side lot that houses an abandoned grand
hotel.  A bone-cracking kick sends Romeo crumbling into the
vacant lot.  The boys swarm toward the fray.
Romeo, still refusing the fight, scrambles up the stairs of
the deserted hotel.  Tybalt trips him and Romeo careens into
an ornamental wooden railing, smashing it to pieces.

Tybalt kicks savagely at the helpless Romeo.

Suddenly, Mercutio appears running full tilt down the
concrete terrace.  He plucks up one of the splintered wooden
palings and yells...

                         MERCUTIO (CONT.)
            Tybalt, you ratcatcher,

...as he bludgeons him across the face.  Tybalt goes down.

                         MERCUTIO (CONT.)
            Will you walk?

Tybalt leaps to his feet grabbing a lump of wood.

                         TYBALT
            What wouldst thou have with me?

He swipes at Mercutio.

                         MERCUTIO
                   (avoiding)
            Good King of Cats, nothing but one
            of your nine lives.

Mercutio jabs, Tybalt sidesteps.

                         TYBALT
            I am for you.

Tybalt aims a double-handed blow to Mercutio's head.
Mercutio blocks, hooking Tybalt's stick away.

Unarmed, Tybalt throws his full body weight upon Mercutio,
slamming him against a window that shatters in a storm of
glass.

Lightning fast, Mercutio jackknifes to his feet.  He raises
his weapon to deliver a skull-crushing final blow to the
trapped Tybalt.  Romeo rushes between them.

                         ROMEO
            Forbear this outrage, good Mercutio!

Seizing the opportunity, Tybalt lunges at Romeo with a
lethal triangle of broken glass.  He misses, gouging instead
a slash of flesh from Mercutio's stomach.
A scream of excruciating pain as Mercutio grabs at his
bloodied side.  Everyone is still.  In the abrupt silence,
sirens are heard closing in the distance.  Abra tugs at
Tybalt.

                         ABRA
            Away Tybalt!

They bolt for their vehicle.

Benvolio goes to Mercutio.

                         BENVOLIO
            Art thou hurt?

But Mercutio, covering his wound with his hand, laughs.

                         MERCUTIO
            Ay, ay, a scratch.

He turns to his assembled fans at the bottom of the stairs.
With outrageous bravado he plays at being Caesar the
conqueror.

                         MERCUTIO (CONT.)
            A scratch!

The boys cheer their conquering hero.  Romeo helps Mercutio
down the stairs.

                         ROMEO
            Courage, man.  The hurt cannot be
            much.

Mercutio holding his bleeding side, jokes through the pain.

                         MERCUTIO
            'Twill serve.  Ask for me tomorrow
            and you shall find me a grave man.

He turns the next thought to the assembled audience.

                         MERCUTIO (CONT.)
                   (through crazy laughter)
            A plague o' both your houses!

Mercutio turns from the cheering boys to Romeo who is
struggling to support his weight.

Mercutio - through weak and desperate breathing.

                         MERCUTIO (CONT.)
            Why the devil came you between us?
            I was hurt under your arm.
Romeo starts to register the panic in Mercutio's eyes.

                         ROMEO
            I thought all for the best.

Like an animal trying to break free from a mortal trap,
Mercutio pushes Romeo away.  He screams in horror, as if
falling in the dark:

                         MERCUTIO
            A plague o' both your houses!
            They have made worms' meat of me.

Mercutio staggers down the stairs and collapses in the dirt.
Romeo is there instantly, cradling his friend's head out of
the dust.  The dying boy stares back at Romeo, smiling
through the chilling cold.

                         MERCUTIO (CONT.)
                   (a silent whisper)
            Your houses!

Everything stands still, everything is quiet.  The storm
finally breaks.

EXT.  BEACH - RAIN.  DAY.

Tiny drops of water fall from the sky and bespeckle
Mercutio's lifeless body.  The droplets grow to a heavy rain.
Romeo can hear the faint sound a thousand miles away of
Benvolio whispering:

                         BENVOLIO
            Mercutio is dead!

Tears streak Romeo's face.  He cries out.

                         ROMEO
            Oh sweet Juliet,
            Thy beauty hath made me effeminate
            And in my temper softened valor's
            steel!

The sound of Tybalt's vehicle starting brings back cold
reality.  Romeo's sorrow turns to uncontrollable rage.

Shrugging aside Benvolio's attempts to restrain him, Romeo
runs to his car.

EXT.  BEACH - PARKING LOT.  DAY.

Up ahead Tybalt's sedan screeches into a fishtailing U-turn
and powers away.
Romeo jumps into his vehicle.  In an effort to head Tybalt
off, he guns his damaged machine down a one way street.

The rain is now blinding.  Romeo stops for nothing;
pedestrians flee, cars spin out of control.

EXT.  VERONA BEACH STREETS - FROM AIR.  DAY.

AERIAL SHOT: The two cars speed along parallel roads toward
Plaza Jesu.  Romeo is gaining.

EXT.  VERONA STREET - CHRIST ROUNDABOUT.  DAY.

CUT TO: Tybalt's car negotiating the immense roundabout at
the foot of the statue of Jesus.

EXT.  CHRIST ROUNDABOUT.  DAY.

CUT TO: Romeo's car firing out of the one way street and
slamming into Tybalt's car.  Tybalt's car careens out of
control up the stairs of the statue, clips the fountain,
flips, and slides upside down onto the roadway.

CUT TO: Tybalt scrambling from his upturned vehicle.

CUT TO: Romeo running toward him.

SUDDENLY Romeo is halted by Tybalt's drawn gun.  Fearlessly
marching toward it, he screams through tears.

                         ROMEO
            Mercutio's soul
            Is but a little way above our heads,

Romeo grabs the barrel of the gun; forcing it between his
own eyes, he growls insanely at Tybalt.

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
            Staying for thine to keep him
            company.

Tybalt, unnerved, tries to back off.

                         TYBALT
            Thou, wretched boy, shalt with him
            hence.

Romeo, refusing to let go of the gun, forces Tybalt backward
through the torrential rain.

                         ROMEO
                   (with frightening intensity)
            Either thou or I, or both, must go
            with him.

Cars swerve, Romeo is relentless.  He grips Tybalt's hand
trying to force him to shoot.

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
            Either thou or I, or both, must go
            with him.

Panicked, Tybalt wrenches free and lurches onto the roadway.
Blinded by the headlights of an oncoming car he thuds onto
its hood as it skids to a halt.  The impact catapults his
gun high into the air.

Romeo coldly follows its slow motion, spinning trajectory.

Real time stretches as the gun dances high above his head.
Police sirens, cars swerving, people screaming, and the
yelling of panicked commands fade to a nothingness.

Romeo stands calmly considering the gun in the air.  A
harrowing symphonic tone and the echo of Mercutio's voice
can be heard.

                         MERCUTIO (V/O)
            Why the devil came you between us?

CUT TO: Patrol cars sliding to a halt.

CUT TO: The spinning gun slowly falling to earth.

CUT TO: Tybalt rising from the ground.

CUT TO: Cops leaping from their cars.

CUT TO: The gun landing in Romeo's hand.  His eyes full of
rage.

CUT TO: Cops levelling their revolvers.

                         COP
                   (Romeo in his sights)
            Put up thy weapon.

CUT TO: Real time - Romeo fires three deliberate shots.
Tybalt's body convulses backwards against the car, hitting
it with a thud, bloodying the shattered windscreen.

The cop fires.  A bullet grazes Romeo's arm - his gun drops
as he screams.

                         ROMEO
            O, I am fortune's fool!

At that moment a roaring hurricane wind hits; blinding police.

CLOSE ON: The scaffolding surrounding the Jesus statue.
Part of it's canvas covering rips away.  Scaffold rains down
as the insanely flapping material tries to smash free from
it's moorings.

Through the mayhem, a rusty Ford driven by Balthasar, slides
to a halt.

Balthasar screams out at Romeo.

                         BALTHASAR
            Romeo, away be gone!  Stand not
            amazed!

Romeo collapses into the front seat.

The cops open fire as Balthasar speeds off into the storm.

INT.  BALTHASAR'S CAR.  AFTERNOON.

Romeo is bleeding from the bullet graze.

EXT.  CAUSEWAY.  AFTERNOON.

The gale-force winds throw waves across the causeway as the
fugitives disappear into the black afternoon.

CRANE UP: In the distance we see Montague and Capulet towers.
Divided by the statue of Christ, they suffer the storm's rage.

EXT.  MONUMENT.  AFTERNOON.

Away, below the outstretched arms of Christ, lights from
emergency vehicles pulse red through the downpour.

THE CAMERA: Falls through heavy rain toward a woman crouched
over the lifeless body of Tybalt.

She cries:

                         GLORIA
            Tybalt!

Cops nervously eye Fulgencio Capulet and Ted Montague, who,
both flanked by body guards, face each other across the
crime scene.  Medics stand by helplessly as Gloria clings to
Tybalt's body.  A handcuffed Benvolio looks on.

                         GLORIA (CONT.)
            Tybalt, my cousin, O my brother's
            child!
            O, the blood is spilled of my dear
            kinsman.

Police lines part as Captain Prince arrives.

                         CAPTAIN PRINCE
            Where are the vile beginners of
            this fray?

Benvolio struggles forward.

                         BENVOLIO
            O noble Prince I can discover all
            The unlucky manage of this fatal
            brawl.

Gloria appeals hysterically:

                         GLORIA
            Prince as thou art true,
            For blood of ours shed blood of
            Montague!

                         CAPTAIN PRINCE
            Benvolio, who began this bloody fray?

                         BENVOLIO
                   (pointing to Tybalt's corpse)
            There lies the man, slain by young
            Romeo,
            That slew thy kinsman brave Mercutio.

Gloria interjects savagely.

                         GLORIA
            He speaks not true!  Affection
            makes him false!

                         BENVOLIO
            Romeo, that spoke him fair, could
            not take
            Truce with the unruly spleen of
            Tybalt
            Deaf to peace!

                         GLORIA
            He is a kinsman to the Montague!
            I beg for justice which thou Prince
            must give.
            Romeo slew Tybalt, Romeo must not
            live!

Captain Prince turns to Gloria.
                         CAPTAIN PRINCE
            Romeo slew him, he slew Mercutio.
            Who now the price of his dear blood
            doth owe?

Ted Montague pleads:

                         MONTAGUE
            Not Romeo, Prince, he was Mercutio's
            friend; His fault concludes but
            what the law should end,
            The life of Tybalt.

Captain Prince eyes Montague coldly.

                         CAPTAIN PRINCE
            And for that offence
            Immediately we do exile him.

Montague, body guards in tow, surges forward.

                         MONTAGUE
            Noble Prince...?

Prince silences him.

                         CAPTAIN PRINCE
            I will be deaf to pleading and
            excuses;
            Nor tears nor prayers shall purchase
            out abuses.
            Therefore use none.

The Captain turns and addresses his assembled officers.

                         CAPTAIN PRINCE (CONT.)
            Let Romeo hence in haste,
            Else, when he is found that hour is
            his last.

CLOSE ON: Captain Prince.

                         CAPTAIN PRINCE (CONT.)
            Bear hence this body and attend our
            will.
            Mercy but murders, pardoning those
            that kill.

INT.  JULIET'S BEDROOM.  AFTERNOON.

An acoustic guitar version of Joy Division's 'Love Will Tear
Us Apart.' Juliet traces the path of a raindrop on the
window pane as she speaks her thoughts to the storm.

                         JULIET
            Come gentle night, coming loving
            black browed night,
            Give me my Romeo.  And when I shall
            die,
            Take him and cut him out in little
            stars,
            And he will make the face of heaven
            so fine
            That all the world will be in love
            with night,
            And pay no worship to the garish
            sun.
            O, I have bought the mansion of a
            love
            But not possessed it, and though I
            am sold,
            Not yet enjoyed.  So tedious is
            this day
            As is the night before some festival
            To an impatient child that hath new
            robes
            And may not wear them.

EXT.  CAPULET'S MANSION - DRIVEWAY.  AFTERNOON.

Juliet's P.O.V.: The limousine pulls into the driveway.

PULL OUT: Of the window and CRANE DOWN: Juliet runs from the
room.

EXT.  CAPULET MANSION.  AFTERNOON.

Through the open doorway we see an excited Juliet meet the
Nurse at the bottom of the stairs.

The music surges.

TRACK IN: The Nurse's words are lost in the storm.

Juliet buckles.

INT.  CAPULET MANSION.  AFTERNOON.

We are close enough now to hear Juliet's words.

                         JULIET
            Oh God!  Did Romeo's hand shed
            Tybalt's blood?

                         NURSE
            It did, it did!  Alas the day, it
            did!

                         JULIET
            Oh serpent heart, hid with a
            flowering face.
            Was ever book containing such vile
            matter
            So fairly bound?  O, that deceit
            should dwell
            In such a gorgeous palace!

                         NURSE
            There's no trust, No faith, no
            honesty in men.  All perjured,
            All forsworn, all naught, all
            dissemblers.
            Shame come to Romeo.

                         JULIET
            Blistered be thy tongue
            For such a wish!  He was not born
            to shame.  Upon his brow shame is
            ashamed to sit.

                         NURSE
            Will you speak well of him that
            killed your cousin?

                         JULIET
            Shall I speak ill of him that is my
            husband?
            Ah, poor my lord, what tongue shall
            smooth thy name
            When I, thy three-hours wife have
            mangled it?
            But whyfore, villain, didst thou
            kill my cousin?
            That villain cousin would have
            killed my husband.
            All this is comfort, wherefore weep
            I then?
            Some word there was worser than
            Tybalt's death:
            I would forget it fain - exiled.
            Tybalt is dead, and Romeo exiled.
            To speak that word is father,
            mother,
            Tybalt, Romeo, Juliet, all slain,
            All dead.

Juliet sinks to the floor, overwhelmed by tears.

                         JULIET (CONT.)
            Nurse, I'll to my wedding bed,
            And death, not Romeo, take my
            maidenhead.

Nurse looks down at Juliet.  She goes and comforts her.

                         NURSE
            Hie to your chamber.  I'll find
            Romeo
            To comfort you.  I know well where
            he is.
            Hark ye, your Romeo will be here at
            night.

Juliet looks up through tears.

                         JULIET
            O find him, give this ring to my
            true knight,
            And bid him come to take his last
            farewell.

SLAM MACRO ZOOM: Into the ring.  The screen fills with the
words 'I love thee'.

INT.  PRESBYTERY BEDROOM.  NIGHT.

Romeo lies on the bed shirtless and crying.  His wound has
been bandaged and Balthasar crouches frightened in the corner.

The priest leads the Nurse into the room.

Romeo looks up.

                         ROMEO
            Nurse!

She goes to him.

                         NURSE
            Ah sir!  Ah sir!  Death's the end
            of all.

                         ROMEO
            Speakest thou of Juliet?
            Where is she?  And how doth she?
            And what says
            My concealed lady to our cancelled
            love?

                         NURSE
            O, she says nothing, sir, but weeps
            and weeps,
            And then on Romeo cries, and then
            falls down again.

Romeo is wailing inconsolably.
                         ROMEO
            As if that name,
            Shot from the deadly level of a
            gun,
            Did murder her, as that name's
            cursed hand murdered her kinsman!

Father Laurence shakes the hysterical boy.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            I thought thy disposition better
            tempered!
            Thy Juliet is alive, There art thou
            happy.
            The law that threatened death
            becomes thy friend
            And turns it to exile.  There art
            thou happy.
            A pack of blessings light upon thy
            back.

Romeo calms.  The Nurse gives him the ring.

                         NURSE
            Here sir, a ring my lady bid me
            give you.

Romeo enfolds the ring in his hand.

                         ROMEO
            How well my comfort is revived by
            this.

The priest goes to his wardrobe, removes a clean white shirt
and helps Romeo put it on.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            Go, get thee to thy love, as was
            decreed.
            Ascend her chamber.  Hence and
            comfort her.
            But look thou stay not till the
            Watch be set,
            For then thou canst not pass to
            Mantua where thou shalt live till
            we can find a time
            To blaze your marriage, reconcile
            your friends,
            Beg pardon of the Prince and call
            thee back,
            With twenty hundred thousand times
            more joy
            Than thou wentst forth in
            lamentation.

Father Laurence ushers Romeo from the room.

INT.  HALLWAY.  NIGHT.

They hurry down the hallway.

The priest opens the front door.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            Go hence.  Be gone by the break of
            day
            Sojourn in Mantua.  Give me thy hand.

Romeo embraces him.

                         ROMEO
            Farewell.

The priest and Balthasar watch as Romeo and the Nurse sprint
for the car.

INT.  CAPULET MANSION.  NIGHT.

Sobs echo through the house.

Dave Paris stands in the entrance hallway clutching a huge
bunch of flowers.

Fulgencio Capulet stands beside him, whisky glass in hand.

CUT TO: Gloria on the upper landing.  There is a strange
faraway quality about her as she descends to Dave and Capulet.

                         GLORIA
            She'll not come down tonight.

Dave, an understanding smile.

                         DAVE
            These times of woe afford no times
            to woo.

Capulet guides Dave into the house.

                         CAPULET
            Look you, she loved her kinsman
            Tybalt dearly.

                         GLORIA
                   (joining)
            And so did I.

                         CAPULET
                   (a cold glance at Gloria)
            Well, we were born to die.

Capulet takes a large slug of whisky.  Gloria leans close to
Dave.

                         GLORIA
            I'll know her mind early tomorrow.
            Tonight she's mewed up to her
            heaviness.

As Gloria, Dave and Capulet exit down the hallway we CRANE
UP: toward Juliet's bedroom door.

INT.  JULIET'S BEDROOM.  NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: Juliet's face.  Tears stream onto the pillow.
Without warning a hand lightly touches her cheek.  Juliet's
eyes dart up to discover Romeo standing above her.

A still moment of disbelief.  Leaning down, Roemo kisses
away the tears that fall from her dark, wide eyes.

Juliet's lips find Romeo's and they gently sink back onto
the bed.

INT.  SITTING ROOM.  NIGHT.

Capulet sits in an armchair drinking.  Dave and Gloria sit
opposite as Capulet whips himself into a frenzy of drunken
excitement.

                         CAPULET
            We'll keep no great ado - a friend
            or two.
            For, hark you, Tybalt being slain
            so late,
            It may be thought we held him
            carelessly,
            Being our kinsman if we revel
            much -
            But soft what day is this?

                         DAVE
            Monday my lord.

                         CAPULET
            Well Wednesday is too soon - what
            say you to Thursday?

Gloria looks up alarmed; Dave is stunned.

                         DAVE
            My lord I...

                         CAPULET
                   (leaning close)
            I will make a desperate tender of
            my child's love.
                   (a drunken good humour)
            I think she will be ruled in all
            respects by me;
                   (exploding with
                   hearty laughter)
            Nay, more, I doubt it not!

CUT TO: Gloria, her face hardens.

                         CAPULET
                   (to Dave)
            But what say you to Thursday?

Dave is trying to catch up.

                         DAVE
            My lord I...

CUT TO: Capulet he eyes Dave intently.

                         DAVE (CONT.)
            I would that Thursday were tomorrow.

Delighted, Capulet jumps to his feet.

                         CAPULET
            A Thursday let it be then!

Capulet holds out his glass in toast.  Dave and Gloria rise.

                         CAPULET
            Wife, go you to Juliet ere you go
            to bed.
            Tell her, a Thursday she shall be
            married
            To this noble sir!

CLOSE ON: The glasses clink.

EXT.  CAPULET ESTATE.  DAWN.

A pink and gold dawn breaks over Capulet Mansion.

INT.  JULIET'S BEDROOM.  DAWN.

A tangle of young limbs.

Romeo and Juliet blissfully asleep.  The dawn light creeps
into the room.

EXT.  CAPULET ESTATE.  DAWN.

Balthasar's car covertly pulls into a side road near the
estate.

INT.  JULIET'S BEDROOM.  DAWN.

Romeo and Juliet still asleep.

CRANE DOWN: Toward the sleeping innocence of the faces.

HOLD: A shadow of fear passes across Romeo's features.

With a cry of panic, he sits bolt upright.

Wide awake, but disorientated, Romeo stares around the
room - as Juliet stirs, he remembers where he is.

Slipping quietly from the bed, Romeo begins to dress.

CLOSE ON: Romeo.  A pair of lips enter frame and find his
neck.  It is Juliet.  She hugs herself to him.

                         JULIET
            Wilt thou be gone?  It is not yet
            near day.

Romeo turns - softly he strokes her cheek.

                         ROMEO
            I must be gone and live, or stay
            and die.

Juliet kisses his finger-tips.

                         JULIET
            Yond light is not daylight,

And then his cheek...

                         JULIET (CONT.)
            I know it, I
            It is some meteor that the sun
            exhales
            To light thee on thy way to Mantua.
            Therefore stay yet.  Thou needest
            not to be gone.

Romeo, feverishly returning the kisses, throws himself on
Juliet.

                         ROMEO
            Let me be taken, let me be put to
            death.
            I have more care to stay than will
            to go.
            Come, death, and welcome!  Juliet
            wills it so.

Juliet is suddenly still.  Romeo kisses her gently.

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
            How is't, my soul?  Let's talk.  It
            is not day.

Juliet pulls Romeo to his feet.

                         JULIET
            It is, it is!  Hie hence, be gone,
            away!
            O, now be gone!  More light and
            light it grows.

Frantically she helps him into his clothes.

                         ROMEO
            More light and light: more dark and
            dark our woes.

There is an urgent knocking on the door.  They freeze.

                         NURSE (O/S)
            Madam!

                         JULIET
            Nurse!

                         NURSE (O/S)
            Your lady mother is coming to your
            chamber.

                         JULIET
            Then, window, let day in, and let
            life out.

Desperately Juliet pulls Romeo out onto the balcony.

EXT.  BALCONY.  DAWN.

The storm, now past, has left a morning achingly pure.

                         ROMEO
            Farewell, farewell.  One kiss, and
            I'll descend.
Romeo climbs down from the balcony and into the shadows.

                         JULIET
            O, think'st thou we shall ever meet
            again?

Romeo smiles up at her.

                         ROMEO
            I doubt it not;

Juliet's face darkens.

                         JULIET
            O God, I have an ill-divining soul.
            Methinks I see thee, now thou art
            so low,
            As one dead in the bottom of a tomb.

Romeo scrambles back up to the balcony.

                         ROMEO
            Trust me, love, all these woes
            shall serve
            For sweet discourses in our times
            to come.

From Juliet's bedroom comes the brittle sound of Gloria
Capulet's voice.

                         GLORIA
            Ho daughter!  Are you up?

Juliet spins around.  Gloria has parted the curtains and is
staring directly at her daughter.

                         GLORIA
            Well, well.

CUT TO: Romeo sheltered just below the lip of the balcony.

FOLLOW: His hand, as it slowly reaches up and touches
Juliet's fingers hidden behind her back.

Gloria returns to the room.  Juliet steals a glance toward
Romeo as he silently mouths:

                         ROMEO
            Adieu, adieu!

As Romeo's face disappears into the shadows Juliet whispers
a little prayer to herself.

                         JULIET
            O Fortune, Fortune!  Be fickle,
            Fortune,
            Fo then I hope thou wilt not keep
            him long
            But send him back.

INT.  JULIET'S BEDROOM.  DAWN.

Juliet is trying not to cry as she goes in to her mother.
Gloria turns to her.

                         GLORIA
            Thou hast a careful father, child:
            One who, to put thee from thy
            heaviness,
            Hath sorted out a sudden day of joy
            That thou expects not nor I looked
            not for.

Juliet plays along.

                         JULIET
            Madam, in happy time.  What day is
            that?

Gloria takes a deep breath.

                         GLORIA
            Marry, my child, early next Thursday
            morn
            The gallant, young, and noble
            gentleman,
            Sir Paris, at Saint Peter's Church,
            Shall happily make thee there a
            joyful bride.

CLOSE ON: Juliet.  She can barely speak.

                         JULIET
            Now by Saint Peter's Church, and
            Peter too,
            He shall not make me there a joyful
            bride!

Fear passes across Gloria's face.

                         GLORIA
            Here comes your father.  Tell him
            so yourself.

Capulet - whisky glass in hand - ebulliently bursts into the
room.

                         CAPULET
            How now, wife?
            Have you delivered to her our decree?

                         GLORIA
            Ay, sir.  But she will none, she
            gives you thanks.
            I would the fool were married to
            her grave!

Capulet - a dangerous calm.

                         CAPULET
            How?  Will she none?
            Is she not proud?  Doth she not
            count her blest,
            Unworthy as she is, that we have
            wrought
            So worthy a gentleman to be her
            bride?

                         JULIET
            Not proud you have, but thankful
            that you have.
            Proud can I never be of what I hate.

PAUSE: Capulet considers his daughter, then -

BAM!  He hurls his glass against the wall, shattering it
into a thousand pieces.

                         CAPULET
            Thank me no thankings, nor proud me
            no prouds,
            But fettle your fine joints 'gainst
            Thursday next ...

Capulet advances.  Juliet, terrified, retreats into the
hallway.

                         JULIET
            Hear me with patience but to speak
            a word...

INT.  LANDING.  DAY.

The Nurse appears as Capulet picks his daughter up and
shakes her like a rag doll.

                         CAPULET
            Speak not, reply not, do not answer
            me!

He throws her to the floor.  His fist thuds as it slams into
her face.

                         GLORIA
                   (screaming)
            Fie, fie!  What are you mad?

Gloria tries to restrain Capulet.  He back-hands her,
sending her flying against the wall - bellowing insanely, he
advances on his cowering daughter.

                         CAPULET
            Hang thee, young baggage!
            Disobedient wretch.

The Nurse throws herself between Capulet and Juliet.

                         NURSE
            God in heaven bless her!
            You are to blame, my lord, to rate
            her so.

Furious, Capulet shunts her aside.

                         CAPULET
            Peace, you mumbling fool!

Capulet yanks his daughter's face close to his.

                         CAPULET (CONT.)
            I tell thee what - get thee to
            church a Thursday
            Or never after look me in the face.
            And you be mine, I'll give you to
            my friend.
            And you be not, hang, beg, starve,
            die in the streets,
            Trust to it.  Bethink you.  I'll
            not be forsworn.

Capulet storms off down the hall.

CLOSE ON: Juliet.  She huddles, shaking at the top of the
stairs.

                         JULIET
            O sweet my mother, cast me not
            away!
            Delay this marriage for a month, a
            week.
            Or if you do not, make the bridal
            bed
            In that dim monument where Tybalt
            lies.

A trickle of blood issues from Gloria's cut lip.  She checks
her appearance in the hall mirror.

                         GLORIA
            Talk not to me, for I'll not speak
            a word.
            Do as thou wilt, for I have done
            with thee.

Gloria leaves.

                         JULIET
            O God! - O Nurse, how shall this be
            prevented?

The Nurse doesn't reply.

                         JULIET (CONT.)
            What sayest thou?  Hast thou not a
            word of joy?
            Some comfort, Nurse.

A heavy silence.

The Nurse goes to Juliet.

                         NURSE
            Faith, here it is.
            I think it best you married with
            this Paris.
            O, he's a lovely gentleman!
            I think you are happy in this
            second match,
            For it excels your first; or if it
            did not,
            Your first is dead - or 'twere as
            good he were
            As living here and you no use of him.

Juliet is very still.

                         JULIET
            Speakest thou from thy heart?

                         NURSE
            And from my soul too.  Else beshrew
            them both.

                         JULIET
            Amen.

                         NURSE
                   (unsure)
            What?

Juliet is matter of fact.

                         JULIET
            Well, thou hast comforted me
            marvellous much.
            Go in; and tell my lady I am gone,
            Having displeased my father, to
            Friar Laurence,
            To make confession and to be
            absolved.

The old woman nods.  She strokes Juliet's hair.

                         NURSE
            This is wisely done.

Juliet does not look up.

A disturbing choral chant:

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

INT.  CHURCH.  DAY.

Sunlight pierces stained glass - the chant a sinister
underscoring.  We hear Dave Paris' voice:

                         DAVE (O/S)
            Immoderately she weeps for Tybalt's
            death...

CRANE DOWN: Father Laurence and Dave Paris stand at the
front of the church.

                         DAVE (CONT.)
            ...Now, sir, her father counts it
            dangerous
            That she doth give her sorrow so
            much sway,
            And in his wisdom hastes our
            marriage
            To stop the inundation of her
            tears...

Father Laurence turns.  Juliet stands framed in the white
glare of the doorway.

Dave smiles.

                         DAVE
            Happily met, my lady and my wife.

CLOSE ON: Juliet's hand concealed beneath her coat - we can
just see the handle of a gun.

Juliet advances slowly, an icy calm:

                         JULIET
            That may be, sir, when I may be a
            wife.

                         DAVE
            That 'may be', must be, love, on
            Thursday next.

Juliet stares past Dave.

                         JULIET
            What must be, shall be.

Father Laurence, a forced cheerfulness.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            That's a certain text.

                         DAVE
            Come you to make confession?

Juliet forces a smile.

                         JULIET
            Are you at leisure, holy father,
            now?
            Or shall I come to you at evening
            mass?

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            My leisure serves me, pensive
            daughter, now.
                   (to Dave)
            We must entreat the time alone.

                         DAVE
            God shield I should disturb
            devotion! - Juliet, on Thursday
            early will I rouse ye;

Dave bends.

CLOSE ON: Juliet; she stares stonily ahead as Dave kisses
her cheek.

                         DAVE (CONT.)
            Till then, adieu, and keep this
            holy kiss.

Dave leaves.

TRACK WITH: Juliet; she runs for the sacristy.

The priest follows.

INT.  SACRISTY.  DAY.

Juliet, shaking with sobs takes refuge in the shadows of the
small room.

The priest goes to her.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            O Juliet, I already know thy grief.

Juliet pulls away.

                         JULIET
            Tell me not, Father, that thou
            hearest of this,
            Unless thou tell me how I may
            prevent it.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            It strains me past the compass of
            my wits.

                         JULIET
                   (desperately)
            If in thy wisdom thou canst give no
            help
            Do thou but call my resolution
            wise,
            And with this I'll help it presently!

She pulls the gun, pointing it towards herself.

Horrified, Father Laurence moves to her.

Juliet, panicked, levels the gun at him.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            Hold daughter!

                         JULIET
                   (through tears)
            Be not so long to speak.  I lone to
            die!

Father Laurence holds out a soothing hand.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            I do spy a kind of hope,
            Which craves as desperate an
            execution
            As that is desperate which we would
            prevent.
            If, rather than marry Paris,
            Thou hast the strength of will to
            slay thyself,
            Then it is likely thou wilt
            undertake
            A thing like death...

We hear the distended chords of Fauré's Requiem.

                         FATHER LAURENCE (CONT.)
            to chide away this shame...

It continues throughout as;

The entire screen fills with a glinting tear drop of blue
liquid.

Reflected in the fluid's convex surface, the face of Father
Laurence.

The face disappears as the tear drop falls and splashes into
a clear water solution.

Like a comet in slow motion, the drop stains the water a
cobalt hue.

INT.  GREENHOUSE WORKROOM.  DAY.

PULL BACK: The blue liquid fills a tiny glass vial held by
Father Laurence.

                         FATHER LAURENCE (CONT.)
            No warmth, no breath shall testify
            thou livest.
            Each part, deprived of supple
            government,
            Shall stiff and stark and cold
            appear, like death.
            Now when the bridegroom in the
            morning
            Comes to rouse thee from thy bed,
            there art thou, dead.
            Thou shalt be borne to that same
            ancient vault
            Where all the kindred of the
            Capulets lie.
            In the meantime, against thou shalt
            awake,
            Shall Romeo by my letters know our
            drift,
            And hither shall he come.
            And that very
            Night shall Romeo bear thee hence
            to Mantua.

The priest cautiously hands Juliet the vial.

                         FATHER LAURENCE (CONT.)
            Take thou this vial, being then in
            bed,
            And this distilling liquor drink
            thou off.
            I'll send my letters to thy lord
            with speed to Mantua.

EXT.  CHURCH.  DAY.

As Father Laurence speaks, the screen fills with an express
envelope addressed "Romeo - Mantua." The envelope pulls away
from the camera and falls into a canvas bag brimming with
hundreds of like envelopes.

TRACK: With the canvas bag.  It continues its journey into
the back of an express delivery van.

Heavy double doors slam shut, filling the screen with the
slogan 'Speed Express.'

The van pulls away.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

EXT.  MANTUA.  DAY.

A burning red sun is setting over an endless vista of ragged
wasteland.

CRANE DOWN: A weathered sign reads - Mantua: Behind it a
vast colony of permanent trailer homes stretches into the
distance.

The rap, rap, rap of knocking echoes through the park...

CUT TO: The source of the knocking.  An express delivery
man, envelope in hand, raps vigorously on the door of an
unremarkable trailer.

INT.  TRAILER.  DAY.

TOPOGRAPHICAL SHOT: Romeo lies flat on a single bed in the
crampled trailer.

The rap, rap, rap is very loud now.  We move toward Romeo
and realise he cannot hear the knocking because he has
Walkman headphones on.

EXT.  TRAILER.  DAY.

Unsuccessful, the delivery man is filling out a "WE CALLED"
card.  He pushes it under the door.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

INT.  CAPULET MANSION.  NIGHT.

The heraldic 'Wedding Chimes' by JS Bach.  Juliet stands
resplendent in a radiant bridal gown.  The image floats
ethereally in a towering slab of mirror.

PULL OUT: From the mirror.  The wedding dress is in fact
being held in front of Juliet by two members of the house
staff.  Juliet is dressed in her night gown.  The Nurse
suggests various pairs of shoes.

                         JULIET
                   (disinterested)
            Ay, these attires are best.

The fuss dispensed with, the staff leave.

                         JULIET
            But, gentle Nurse,
            I pray thee leave me to myself
            tonight.

                         NURSE
            Why Bride?

Juliet navigates the Nurse toward the door.

                         JULIET
                   (almost in tears)
            To move the heavens to smile upon
            my state,
            Which, well thou knowest, is cross
            and full of sin.

Juliet holds the Nurse in a pleading stare.  She leaves.

Alone now, Juliet hurries to her bedside drawer.  She
cautiously removes a rolled piece of cloth from which she
produces the glass vial.

                         JULIET
                   (whispers)
            What if this mixture do not work at
            all?
            Shall I be married then tomorrow
            morning?

She cautiously begins to unscrew the tiny black lid.
Suddenly, a knock at her door.  Palming the vial, Juliet
swings around to meet the arrival of her mother.  Gloria
probes her daughter's uneasiness.

                         GLORIA
            What, are you busy, ho?  Need you
            my help?

                         JULIET
                   (makes light of it)
            No, madam.  We have culled such
            necessaries
            As are behoveful for our state
            tomorrow.
            So please you, let me now be left
            alone,
            And let the Nurse this night sit up
            with you.

Juliet begins to pull down the covers on her bed.

                         JULIET (CONT.)
            For I am sure you have your hands
            full all
            In this so sudden business.

Gloria, sensing Juliet's distress, moves cautiously toward
her.  Taking hold of the bed covers she helps her daughter
into bed.

                         GLORIA
            Good night.

Juliet slides into bed.  Gloria covers her with the blanket.

                         GLORIA (CONT.)
            Get thee to bed, and rest, for thou
            hast need.

A brief moment between mother and daughter.  Gloria, unable
to cross that final barrier, moves to the door; but she is
stopped by the urgency in Juliet's voice.

                         JULIET
            Farewell!

Gloria turns to Juliet.

                         JULIET (CONT.)
            God knows when we shall meet again.

CLOSE ON: Gloria.  A faint perplexity, and then with an
almost warm smile she turns out the light and leaves.

The room is in darkness but for patterns of moonlight
through windows.

TRACK: Toward Juliet.  The sombre tones of Fauré's Requiem
seep into our consciousness.

                         JULIET
            I have a faint cold fear thrills
            through my veins
            That almost freezes up the heat of
            life.

She brings the vial her mouth.

                         JULIET (CONT.)
            Come, vial.  Romeo, I drink to thee.

Juliet drinks, a sudden violent convulsion, her face contorts
in fear.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

EXT.  CAPULET ESTATE.  DAY.

The sky is filled with green and grey clouds.  A gusty rain
blows the flower arrangements across the lawn.  Large white
wedding marquees flap in the wind.

Through blurring rain, we see ambulances and police vehicles,
lights flashing.  Father Laurence, accompanied by a dour
looking man in black, alights from his car.  We follow their
P.O.V.: We hear snatches of radio calls.

                         MEDIC ONE (OVER RADIO)
            Mortal drugs?

                         MEDIC TWO (OVER RADIO)
            Of lethal quantity as 'twould
            render death.

INT.  CAPULET MANSION - DINING ROOM.  DAY.

They enter the house and pass the vast dining room, bedecked
with wedding decorations.

Capulet sits at the large mahogany table.  In the background
Gloria stares vacantly.

Moving swiftly toward a doorway, the music builds.

INT.  CAPULET MANSION - JULIET'S BEDROOM.  DAY.

The door opens.  On the bed Juliet's still body.  Father
Laurence closes the door.  The priest kneels and hastily
examines Juliet's pupils.  He looks to the man in black who
retrieves the glass vial from the floor and pockets it.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
                   (to the man in black)
            As the custom is,
            In all her best array bear her to
            church.

When the man in black allows two other dark suited men into
the room, it becomes clear he is the undertaker.

                         UNDERTAKER
            She shall be borne to that same
            ancient vault
            Where all the kindred of the
            Capulets lie.

INT.  MAUSOLEUM.  DAY.

A thousand voices proclaim the 'Song of Ascension.'

PAN DOWN: From the vaulting glass ceiling of the Capulet
mausoleum.

On view, enshrined in literally thousands of lit candles, is
Juliet's peaceful body.

We move through lines of Capulet mourners.  In the shadows
of the front door a young man hides.

CLOSE ON: The young man.  We recognise the distressed face
of Balthasar.

PUSH IN: Balthasar rushes from the Mausoleum.

EXT.  MANTUA.  DAY.

We are high above Mantua.  Beyond the trailer park stretches
a long ribbon of black highway.

As a Speed Express van turns off the highway and into the
park, we hear Romeo's voice over:

                         ROMEO (V/O)
            If I may trust the flattering truth
            of sleep
            My dreams presage some joyful news
            at hand...

CRANE DOWN: The Express van pulls up at the front office.
The driver alights and goes inside.

INT.  TRAILER.  DAY.

Romeo sits at the trailer's small kitchen table smoking and
writing in his notebook.  The "WE CALLED" card lies next to
an overflowing ashtray.

His voice over continues.

                         ROMEO (V/O)
            And all this day an unaccustomed
            spirit
            Lifts me above the ground with
            cheerful thoughts.
            I dreamt my lady came and found me
            dead
            And breathed such life with kisses
            in my lips
            That I revived and was an emperor.
            Ah me, how sweet is love itself
            possessed
            When but love's shadows are so rich
            in joy.

Stubbing out his cigarette, Romeo gazes through the trailer
window to see Balthasar's speeding car turn off the highway
and into the trailer park.

                         ROMEO
            News from Verona!

An excited Romeo rushes from the trailer.

EXT.  TRAILER PARK.  DAY.

CRANE HIGH: Romeo sprints across open ground to intercept
Balthasar's car.  We see, but Romeo cannot, the Express van
approaching from the office.  The car slews to a halt and
Balthasar jumps out.

Romeo yells joyously.

                         ROMEO
            How now, Balthasar?

Bathlasar cannot speak.

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
            Dost thou not bring me letters from
            the Priest?
            How doth my lady?  Is my father
            well?
            How doth my lady Juliet?  That I
            ask again,
            For nothing can be ill if she be
            well.

Balthasar does not know how to say what he has come to tell.
He looks away.

                         BALTHASAR
            Then she is well and nothing can be
            ill.
            Her body sleeps in Capels' monument,
            And her immortal part with angels
            lives.
            I saw her laid low in her kindred's
            vault.

For a long moment Romeo is profoundly still.  When he
speaks, it is with a chilling calm.

                         ROMEO
            Is it e'en so?

Balthasar nods.

Romeo turns and stares into the distant wasteland.

CLOSE ON: He speaks with bitter determination.

                         ROMEO
            Then I defy you stars.

Romeo moves to the car.

                         ROMEO
            I will hence tonight.

Balthasar tries to restrain him.

                         BALTHASAR
            Have patience...

Exploding with fury, Romeo throws Balthasar against the
vehicle.

                         ROMEO
            Leave me!

CUT TO: The Speed Express messenger.  Returning to his
truck, the priest's undelivered envelope in his hand, the
messenger looks toward the two boys.

CUT TO: The boys.  Balthasar pleads with Romeo.

                         BALTHASAR
            Your looks are pale and wild and do
            import
            Some misadventure.

                         ROMEO
                   (with cold serenity)
            Tush, thou art deceived.
                   (a niggling thought)
            Hast thou no letters to me from the
            Priest?

Balthasar shakes his head.

Romeo smiles.

                         ROMEO
            No matter - I will hence tonight.

Romeo climbs into the passenger seat of the car.  Balthasar
reluctantly gets behind the wheel.

As silent tears begin to flow, Romeo turns his face to the
setting sun.

PUSH IN: As he whispers:

                         ROMEO
            Well Juliet, I will lie with thee
            tonight.

Balthasar's car roars out of the park.

CUT TO: The delivery man.  He looks to the envelope in his
hand, then gets back into his truck.

EXT.  HIGHWAY.  NIGHT.

Balthasar's car speeds along the night-time highway.

CRANE UP: In the distance the glow of city lights.

EXT.  ALLEYWAY.  NIGHT.

Balthasar's car pulls into an alley and stops outside a
decrepity apartment block.
INT.  APARTMENT BLOCK.  NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: A bespectacled eye peers through the crack of a
partly open doorway.  Below the face, the barrel of a
shotgun protrudes menacingly.

CUT TO: Romeo in the dark, paint peeling hallway.

                         ROMEO
            Let me have
            A dram of poison, such soon-
            speeding gear
            As will disperse itself through all
            the veins
            That the life-weary taker may fall
            dead.

The eye considers, a voice rasps back.

                         APOTHECARY
            Such mortal drugs I have, but
            Verona's law
            Is death to any he that utters them.

Romeo speaks with fury.

                         ROMEO
            The world is not thy friend, nor
            the world's law.
            Then be not poor, but break it and
            take this.

Romeo shoves a wad of money at THE APOTHECARY'S face.

BEAT.  The rattle of a latch chain and the door swings open.

Standing in the doorway is The Apothecary.  Sixty something,
he has a face scarred with age and abuse.

                         APOTHECARY
            My poverty, but not my will consents.

CLOSE ON: Romeo.

                         ROMEO
            I pay thy poverty and not thy will.

INT.  PRESBYTERY.  NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: Father Laurence.  He speaks into the telephone
with concern.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            Who bore my letter then to Romeo?

INT.  SPEED EXPRESS DEPOT.  NIGHT.

A bored clerk is on the other end of the line.  The priest's
letter is on the counter beside him.

                         CLERK
            I could not sent it - here it is
            again.

INT.  PRESBYTERY.  NIGHT.

Father Laurence is worried.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            By my brotherhood, unhappy fortune!
            The letter was of dear import.
                   (PAUSE: the priest listens)
            Adieu.

He hangs up the receiver and looks at the wall clock.

                         FATHER LAURENCE (CONT.)
            Now must I to the monument alone.
            Within this hour will fair Juliet
            awake.

DISSOLVE FROM: The clock to...

INT.  APOTHECARY'S APARTMENT.  NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: A cat skitters across a stained formica table.

PULL BACK: The Apothecary's apartment is filled with cats.
Dozens of feline eyes glow in the dim room.  Romeo stands
nervously.  The Apothecary extracts a small chemist's vial
from inside a 'Statue of Our Lady' table lamp - he now
speaks with cool professionalism.

                         APOTHECARY
            Drink it off and if you had the
            strength of twenty men it would
            dispatch you straight.

Romeo takes the vial and hands over the money.

                         ROMEO
            There is my gold - worse poison to
            men's souls
            Than these poor compounds that thou
            mayst not sell.

INT.  BALTHASAR'S CAR.  NIGHT.

Motor running, Balthasar waits in the alley outside the
apartment building.  He checks the rear view mirror and
freezes.  At the end of the alleyway a police car crawls to
a halt.

EXT.  ALLEYWAY.  NIGHT.

Romeo exits the building, and as he does so, the streetlight
catches his face.  The Cop's and Romeo's eyes meet.

INT.  POLICE CAR.  NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: The cop.

                         COP
            This is that banished haughty
            Montague.

INT.  BALTHASAR'S CAR.

Balthasar cracks; he guns the engine and the car lurches
forward.

EXT.  ALLEYWAY.  NIGHT.

Tires screech as Romeo dives into the passenger seat of
Balthasar's moving vehicle.

Siren blaring, the police car gives chase.

AERIAL SHOT.  NIGHT.

Balthasar's car winds through traffic - the patrol car
gaining.

EXT.  ANOTHER PART OF TOWN.  NIGHT.

A police car U-turns over a median strip.

EXT.  BALTHASAR'S CAR.  NIGHT.

TIGHT ON: A rusted brown hood.

The tortured engine screams as Balthasar negotiates the
speeding car through city traffic.

CRANE UP: Red and blue police light approach fast.

INT.  PRECINCT OFFICE.  NIGHT.

Captain Prince barrels through the corridors of police
headquarters pulling on his flying jacket.

EXT.  STREET.  NIGHT.

TIGHT ON: A smoking tire as it lays rubber to the asphalt.

Balthasar grits his teeth as he weaves the car through the
impossibly tight space between a container truck and a bus.

WHIP PAN: The patrol car is almost upon them when... in a
seemingly suicidal manoeuvre Balthasar throws his car into a
right-angle turn across four lanes of oncoming traffic.
Horns blare.

CUT TO: A skidding, squealing, out of control sedan, braking
to avoid collision.

Miraculously, Balthasar's vehicle shoots out of it its path
and onto the other side of the roadway.

The sedan slams into the following patrol car.

EXT.  DRIVEWAY.  NIGHT.

Balthasar's car speeds into the driveway of the Verona Beach
Eternal Rest Cemetery.

INT.  CHOPPER.  NIGHT.

Captain Prince scans the night time city below.  He speaks
to the pilot and the chopper banks sharply.

EXT.  CEMETERY.  NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: A stone angel etched against the night sky.

PAN DOWN: Romeo pulls a crowbar from the trunk of the parked
car.  Police sirens sound in the distance.

Romeo eyes Balthasar intently.

                         ROMEO
            Upon thy life, whatever thou
            hearest
            Or seest, stand all aloof.  Give me
            the light -

Balthasar stands motionless - Romeo rips the torch from his
hands and strides into the cemetery.  Balthasar follows.

                         BALTHASAR
            I do beseech you...

Romeo turns, punching Balthasar hard; he goes down, blood
spurting from his nose.

                         ROMEO
            Do not interrupt me in my course or
            By heaven I will tear thee joint by
            joint
            And strew this hungry churchyard
            with thy limbs!

Balthasar slowly rises.  Both boys are trying hard not to cry.

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
            The time and my intents are savage
            wild,
            More fierce and more inexorable far
            Than empty tigers or the roaring sea.

                         BALTHASAR
            I will be gone and not trouble ye.

Romeo smiles.

                         ROMEO
            So shalt thou show me friendship.

They embrace as Romeo whispers.

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
            Live, and be prosperous; and
            farewell, good fellow.

EXT.  MAUSOLEUM.  NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: A crowbar wrenches at ornate glass and iron doors.

PULL BACK: The Gothic structure of the mausoleum rears
against the night sky.  Romeo frenziedly attacks the gates
of the small side chapel.

                         ROMEO
            Thou detestable maw, thou womb of
            death,
            Thus I enforce thy rotten jaws to
            open.

With a final heave the doors scrape open.

Silence.

ROMEO'S P.O.V.: An endless marble corridor lit by hundreds
of tiny flickering eternal flames.

CLOSE ON: Romeo.  He murmurs:
                         ROMEO
            In despite I'll cram thee with more
            food.

Suddenly a hurricane wind and whirr of machinery: like a
huge black insect, Captain Prince's chopper swoops down over
the mausoleum.

Romeo is caught in the glare of the chopper's burning arc
light.  Sirens scream, police units race through the cemetery.
Blinded, Romeo fires wildly toward the chopper.

The police cars screech to a halt.

CLOSE ON: A police marksman in the chopper.  His finger
squeezes the rifle trigger.

BANG!  A bullet slams into Romeo's shoulder.  The other cops
open fire and Romeo is sent reeling backwards into the
mausoleum in a fusillade of bullets.

INT.  CHOPPER.  NIGHT.

An angry Captain Prince bellows into the radio.

                         CAPTAIN PRINCE
            Hold!  Hold!

The police hold their fire.

INT.  MAUSOLEUM.  NIGHT.

Bleeding from the shoulder wound, Romeo drags shut the heavy
double doors of the chapel.  He bangs off three shots
through a pane of broken glass and screams at the police.

                         ROMEO
            Stand all aloof!

EXT.  MAUSOLEUM.  NIGHT.

Outside the chopper hovers.  Police take up siege positions.
Captain Prince's voice echoes through the bullhorn.

                         CAPTAIN PRINCE
            Romeo, come forth, come forth.

INT.  MAUSOLEUM.  NIGHT.

Romeo uses the crowbar to wedge the doors shut.  He bangs
off another shot as he yells out at the Police.

                         ROMEO
            Tempt not a desperate man!

Romeo waits.  There is no response from the cops.

INT.  CHOPPER.  NIGHT.

As the chopper settles to earth, Captain Prince speaks into
the radio.

                         CAPTAIN PRINCE
            Bring forth these enemies Montague
            and Capulet.

INT.  PRIEST'S CAR.  NIGHT.

Orange rescue lights reflect through the windshield of the
priest's car as it crawls past the crashed sedan and police
vehicle.

Father Laurence thumps the steering wheel in frustration.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            Saint Francis be my speed tonight!

Across the road Police swarm around the entrance to the
cemetery.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            Fear comes upon me.
            O, much I fear some ill unthrifty
            thing.

HOLD ON: The green glow of the car clock as the seconds
pulse away.

INT.  MAUSOLEUM.  NIGHT.

TRACK: Down the marble corridor lit by the eternal flames.

DISCOVER: Romeo.  He weakly stands at the entrance to the
viewing chapel.

The chapel is dark.

As Romeo's eyes adjust he can just see, picked out by a
shaft of blue moonlight, the glowing figure of a sleeping
girl.  He moves down the aisle past the tombs of long-dead
Capulets.

Romeo is close now.  He halts as if in the presence of an
unbelievable vision.  He lights a match and the room glows
gold.  The warm light reveals a Juliet even more beautiful
in seeming death.

Romeo lights some of the hundreds of candles that surround
her.

                         ROMEO
            O my love, my wife,
            Death, that hath sucked the honey
            of thy breath,
            Hath had no power yet upon thy
            beauty,
            Thou art not conquered.  Beauty's
            ensign yet
            Is crimson in thy lips and in thy
            cheeks,
            And death's pale flag is not
            advanced there.

Romeo kneels close, as if not wanting to wake a sleeping
child.  Unconscious tears fall from his eyes as he whispers.

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
            Ah, dear Juliet, why art thou yet
            so fair?
            Shall I believe that unsubstantial
            death
            Is amorous and keeps thee here in
            dark
            To be his paramour?  For fear of
            that
            I still will stay with thee.  Here,
            oh here
            Will I set up my everlasting rest
            And shake the yoke of inauspicious
            stars
            From this world-wearied flesh.

He lays himself close.

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
            Eyes, look your last.
            Arms, take your last embrace.  And,
            lips, O you
            The doors of breath, seal with a
            righteous kiss...

Gently Romeo kisses Juliet's lips.  Ever so slightly,
Juliet's hand moves - Romeo does not notice.

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
            A dateless bargain to engrossing
            death.

Romeo drinks from the vial; the power of the compound is
immediate.  He convulses and falls, his head resting on
Juliet.

                         ROMEO (CONT.)
                   (fighting for breath)
            O true apothecary, thy drugs are
            quick.

Behind Romeo's head we can see Juliet's eyes opening.  Romeo
sucks the last few breaths of life into his lungs.  Through
a blurry consciousness Juliet becomes aware of Romeo.

                         JULIET
            Oh Romeo, what's here?

Forcing herself up, she cradles his head in her arms.
Romeo's clear wide eyes stare back, he is completely still
but for the sound of weak breaths desperately drawn across
motionless lips.

Juliet finds the vial clenched in Romeo's hand.  Tears slip
from her eyes.

                         JULIET (CONT.)
            Drunk all, and left
            No friendly drop to help me after.
            I will kiss thy lips.
            Haply some poison yet doth hang on
            them
            To make me die with a restorative.

She delicately kisses Romeo's lips.

                         JULIET (CONT.)
                   (a heart-broken whisper)
            Thy lips are warm.

Desperately the lovers cling to each other.  With all his
desire to stay alive, Romeo whispers:

                         ROMEO
            Thus with a kiss I die.

There is no breath.  He is still.  Silence.  Sobbing, Juliet
hugs the lifeless Romeo to her.

                         JULIET
            Romeo.  O' my true love Romeo.

She looks to the gun in his hand.

EXT.  MAUSOLEUM.  NIGHT.

TRACK: Quickly past Captain Prince and the Capulets taking
cover behind a patrol car.

Two police officers urgently convey Montague and his wife
toward them.

Discover Father Laurence arriving.

CUT TO: Father Laurence's P.O.V.: Patrol cars, lights
flashing, surround the mausoleum.

He sees, through the open door of a police car, a hand-
cuffed youth.  It is Balthasar.  Father Laurence hurries to
him.

It is dawning on Father Laurence.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            Balthasar?

                         BALTHASAR
                   (desperately)
            I brought news of Juliet's death...
            And then in post came Romeo from
            Mantua
            To this same place... to this same
            monument.

CLOSE ON: Father Laurence.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            How long hath he been there?

                         BALTHASAR
            Full half an hour.

Father Laurence turns towards the mausoleum.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            Romeo.
                   (a shock of realisation)
            The lady stirs...

INT.  MAUSOLEUM.  NIGHT.

TRACK SLOW TOWARD: Juliet: Sobbing uncontrollably she prises
the gun from Romeo's hand.

EXT.  MAUSOLEUM.  NIGHT.

Father Laurence, desperate, breaks through the police line
and runs toward the mausoleum.

CUT TO: The parents and Captain Prince.

                         CAPTAIN PRINCE
            Hold!  Go not forth!

INT.  MAUSOLEUM.  NIGHT.

Juliet turns the gun on herself.

EXT.  MAUSOLEUM.  NIGHT.

CLOSE ON: Father Laurence, he screams as he mounts the
mausoleum stairs.

                         FATHER LAURENCE
            The lady stirs!

CRACK!  The sound of a single gun shot rips through the night.

CUT TO: Captain Prince.

CUT TO: The parents, a look of cold shock.

CUT TO: The priest - his cry echoes through the night.

INT.  MAUSOLEUM.  NIGHT.

Juliet lies peacefully on Romeo's chest.  Her eyes awake.  A
wash of deep red blood floods across them both.  As we move
away from the forms of the two young lovers lit by a ring of
candles, the police burst in, guns ready to resolve what has
already been resolved.  Continuing up, we pass through the
glass dome of the viewing chapel, and over the building.

EXT.  MAUSOLEUM.  NIGHT.

There, huddled at the base of the Mausoleum steps, are the
Montague and Capulet parents and Father Laurence.

From high up we see Captain Prince emerge from the Mausoleum
and speak to the group.  A moment, then their cries float
gently up.

EXT.  SKY.  NIGHT.

We are travelling high into the sky now.  The cries of the
parents and the buzz of radio calls fade to nothing.

EXT.  VERONA BEACH STREET - CHRIST ROUNDABOUT-FROM AIR.  DAWN.

As the sun struggled to rise, we push toward the figure of
Jesus silently surveying the city.

EXT.  VERONA BEACH - CHRIST ROUNDABOUT.  DAWN.

As Jesus' face fills the screen, droplets of water begin to
streak his cheeks.

HOLD: Music swells; the droplets grow to a torrent, and a
heavy rain begins to fall.

For a long beat, we stay with this image.

CRANE DOWN: From the Jesus.  A sea of black umbrellas
stretches back from the steps of Freedom Tower.

EXT.  FREEDOM TOWER.  DAY.

At the top of the steps are a pair of flower strewn caskets.
Before the caskets stand Fulgencia and Gloria Capulet, and
Ted and Caroline Montague.  They stare with blank,
uncomprehending sorrow.

Among the crowd we see the distraught faces of Benvolio,
Balthasar, Father Laurence and the Nurse.

The caskets are gently slid into a pair of long black cars.
Montague and Capulet descend the stairs.  Captain Prince
blocks their path.  He holds them in his gaze.

                         CAPTAIN PRINCE
            See what a scourge is laid upon
            your hate,
            That heaven finds means to kill
            your joys with love;
            And I, for winking at your discords
            too,
            Have lost a brace of kinsmen.  All
            are punished.

The Prince steps aside.  The procession moves off.  Montague
and Capulet look to one another, a moment, and then the two
adversaries together follow the bodies of their dead children.

AERIAL SHOT: The rain falls.  Two black cars lead the people
of Verona Beach in a sorrowful parade.

As the cars pass beneath the towering effigy of Jesus, the
image pixilates into a television picture.

PULL OUT: A TV anchor woman watches the image on a studio
monitor.

She turns:

                         ANCHOR WOMAN
                   (to camera)
            A glooming peace this morning with
            it brings:
            The sun for sorrow will not show
            his head.
            Go hence, to have more talk of
            these sad things.
            Some shall be pardoned, and some
            punished,
            For never was a story of more woe
            Than this of Juliet and her Romeo.

The anchor woman changes beat to the next story; but her
dialogue fades, and her image gets smaller as the television
recedes into a black distance.

The music that reminds us most of these two lost lives
swells.  When the television is very small it is switched off.

BLACK SCREEN.  HOLD A BEAT.

                         END CREDITS

 
 

 
Macbeth
﻿1606
THE TRAGEDY OF MACBETH


by William Shakespeare



Dramatis Personae

  DUNCAN, King of Scotland
  MACBETH, Thane of Glamis and Cawdor, a general in the King's
army
  LADY MACBETH, his wife
  MACDUFF, Thane of Fife, a nobleman of Scotland
  LADY MACDUFF, his wife
  MALCOLM, elder son of Duncan
  DONALBAIN, younger son of Duncan
  BANQUO, Thane of Lochaber, a general in the King's army
  FLEANCE, his son
  LENNOX, nobleman of Scotland
  ROSS, nobleman of Scotland
  MENTEITH nobleman of Scotland
  ANGUS, nobleman of Scotland
  CAITHNESS, nobleman of Scotland
  SIWARD, Earl of Northumberland, general of the English forces
  YOUNG SIWARD, his son
  SEYTON, attendant to Macbeth
  HECATE, Queen of the Witches
  The Three Witches
  Boy, Son of Macduff 
  Gentlewoman attending on Lady Macbeth
  An English Doctor
  A Scottish Doctor
  A Sergeant
  A Porter
  An Old Man
  The Ghost of Banquo and other Apparitions
  Lords, Gentlemen, Officers, Soldiers, Murtherers, Attendants,
     and Messengers




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



SCENE: Scotland and England


ACT I. SCENE I.
A desert place. Thunder and lightning.

Enter three Witches.

  FIRST WITCH. When shall we three meet again?
    In thunder, lightning, or in rain?
  SECOND WITCH. When the hurlyburly's done,
    When the battle's lost and won.
  THIRD WITCH. That will be ere the set of sun.
  FIRST WITCH. Where the place?
  SECOND WITCH. Upon the heath.
  THIRD WITCH. There to meet with Macbeth.
  FIRST WITCH. I come, Graymalkin.
  ALL. Paddock calls. Anon!
    Fair is foul, and foul is fair.
    Hover through the fog and filthy air.                Exeunt.




SCENE II.
A camp near Forres. Alarum within.

Enter Duncan, Malcolm, Donalbain, Lennox, with Attendants,
meeting a bleeding Sergeant.

  DUNCAN. What bloody man is that? He can report,
    As seemeth by his plight, of the revolt
    The newest state.
  MALCOLM. This is the sergeant
    Who like a good and hardy soldier fought
    'Gainst my captivity. Hail, brave friend!
    Say to the King the knowledge of the broil
    As thou didst leave it.
  SERGEANT. Doubtful it stood,
    As two spent swimmers that do cling together
    And choke their art. The merciless Macdonwald-
    Worthy to be a rebel, for to that
    The multiplying villainies of nature
    Do swarm upon him -from the Western Isles
    Of kerns and gallowglasses is supplied;
    And Fortune, on his damned quarrel smiling, 
    Show'd like a rebel's whore. But all's too weak;
    For brave Macbeth -well he deserves that name-
    Disdaining Fortune, with his brandish'd steel,
    Which smoked with bloody execution,
    Like Valor's minion carved out his passage
    Till he faced the slave,
    Which ne'er shook hands, nor bade farewell to him,
    Till he unseam'd him from the nave to the chaps,
    And fix'd his head upon our battlements.
  DUNCAN. O valiant cousin! Worthy gentleman!
  SERGEANT. As whence the sun 'gins his reflection
    Shipwrecking storms and direful thunders break,
    So from that spring whence comfort seem'd to come
    Discomfort swells. Mark, King of Scotland, mark.
    No sooner justice had, with valor arm'd,
    Compell'd these skipping kerns to trust their heels,
    But the Norweyan lord, surveying vantage,
    With furbish'd arms and new supplies of men,
    Began a fresh assault.
  DUNCAN. Dismay'd not this 
    Our captains, Macbeth and Banquo.?
  SERGEANT. Yes,
    As sparrows eagles, or the hare the lion.
    If I say sooth, I must report they were
    As cannons overcharged with double cracks,
    So they
    Doubly redoubled strokes upon the foe.
    Except they meant to bathe in reeking wounds,
    Or memorize another Golgotha,
    I cannot tell-
    But I am faint; my gashes cry for help.
  DUNCAN. So well thy words become thee as thy wounds;
    They smack of honor both. Go get him surgeons.
                                        Exit Sergeant, attended.
    Who comes here?

                       Enter Ross.

  MALCOLM The worthy Thane of Ross.
  LENNOX. What a haste looks through his eyes! So should he look 
    That seems to speak things strange.
  ROSS. God save the King!
  DUNCAN. Whence camest thou, worthy Thane?
  ROSS. From Fife, great King,
    Where the Norweyan banners flout the sky
    And fan our people cold.
    Norway himself, with terrible numbers,
    Assisted by that most disloyal traitor
    The Thane of Cawdor, began a dismal conflict,
    Till that Bellona's bridegroom, lapp'd in proof,
    Confronted him with self-comparisons,
    Point against point rebellious, arm 'gainst arm,
    Curbing his lavish spirit; and, to conclude,
    The victory fell on us.
  DUNCAN. Great happiness!
  ROSS. That now
    Sweno, the Norways' king, craves composition;
    Nor would we deign him burial of his men
    Till he disbursed, at Saint Colme's Inch,
    Ten thousand dollars to our general use. 
  DUNCAN. No more that Thane of Cawdor shall deceive
    Our bosom interest. Go pronounce his present death,
    And with his former title greet Macbeth.
  ROSS. I'll see it done.
  DUNCAN. What he hath lost, noble Macbeth hath won.
                                                         Exeunt.




SCENE III.
A heath. Thunder.

Enter the three Witches.

  FIRST WITCH. Where hast thou been, sister?
  SECOND WITCH. Killing swine.
  THIRD WITCH. Sister, where thou?
  FIRST WITCH. A sailor's wife had chestnuts in her lap,
    And mounch'd, and mounch'd, and mounch'd. "Give me," quoth I.
    "Aroint thee, witch!" the rump-fed ronyon cries.
    Her husband's to Aleppo gone, master the Tiger;
    But in a sieve I'll thither sail,
    And, like a rat without a tail,
    I'll do, I'll do, and I'll do.
  SECOND WITCH. I'll give thee a wind.
  FIRST WITCH. Thou'rt kind.
  THIRD WITCH. And I another.
  FIRST WITCH. I myself have all the other,
    And the very ports they blow,
    All the quarters that they know
    I' the shipman's card. 
    I will drain him dry as hay:
    Sleep shall neither night nor day
    Hang upon his penthouse lid;
    He shall live a man forbid.
    Weary se'nnights nine times nine
    Shall he dwindle, peak, and pine;
    Though his bark cannot be lost,
    Yet it shall be tempest-toss'd.
    Look what I have.
  SECOND WITCH. Show me, show me.
  FIRST WITCH. Here I have a pilot's thumb,
    Wreck'd as homeward he did come.                Drum within.
  THIRD WITCH. A drum, a drum!
    Macbeth doth come.
  ALL. The weird sisters, hand in hand,
    Posters of the sea and land,
    Thus do go about, about,
    Thrice to thine, and thrice to mine,
    And thrice again, to make up nine.
    Peace! The charm's wound up. 

                 Enter Macbeth and Banquo.

  MACBETH. So foul and fair a day I have not seen.
  BANQUO. How far is't call'd to Forres? What are these
    So wither'd and so wild in their attire,
    That look not like the inhabitants o' the earth,
    And yet are on't? Live you? or are you aught
    That man may question? You seem to understand me,
    By each at once her choppy finger laying
    Upon her skinny lips. You should be women,
    And yet your beards forbid me to interpret
    That you are so.
  MACBETH. Speak, if you can. What are you?
  FIRST WITCH. All hail, Macbeth, hail to thee, Thane of Glamis!
  SECOND WITCH. All hail, Macbeth, hail to thee, Thane of Cawdor!
  THIRD WITCH. All hail, Macbeth, that shalt be King hereafter!
  BANQUO. Good sir, why do you start, and seem to fear
    Things that do sound so fair? I' the name of truth,
    Are ye fantastical or that indeed 
    Which outwardly ye show? My noble partner
    You greet with present grace and great prediction
    Of noble having and of royal hope,
    That he seems rapt withal. To me you speak not.
    If you can look into the seeds of time,
    And say which grain will grow and which will not,
    Speak then to me, who neither beg nor fear
    Your favors nor your hate.
  FIRST WITCH. Hail!
  SECOND WITCH. Hail!
  THIRD WITCH. Hail!
  FIRST WITCH. Lesser than Macbeth, and greater.
  SECOND WITCH. Not so happy, yet much happier.
  THIRD WITCH. Thou shalt get kings, though thou be none.
    So all hail, Macbeth and Banquo!
  FIRST WITCH. Banquo and Macbeth, all hail!
  MACBETH. Stay, you imperfect speakers, tell me more.
    By Sinel's death I know I am Thane of Glamis;
    But how of Cawdor? The Thane of Cawdor lives,
    A prosperous gentleman; and to be King 
    Stands not within the prospect of belief,
    No more than to be Cawdor. Say from whence
    You owe this strange intelligence, or why
    Upon this blasted heath you stop our way
    With such prophetic greeting? Speak, I charge you.
                                                 Witches vanish.
  BANQUO. The earth hath bubbles as the water has,
    And these are of them. Whither are they vanish'd?
  MACBETH. Into the air, and what seem'd corporal melted
    As breath into the wind. Would they had stay'd!
  BANQUO. Were such things here as we do speak about?
    Or have we eaten on the insane root
    That takes the reason prisoner?
  MACBETH. Your children shall be kings.
  BANQUO. You shall be King.
  MACBETH. And Thane of Cawdor too. Went it not so?
  BANQUO. To the selfsame tune and words. Who's here?

                Enter Ross and Angus.
 
  ROSS. The King hath happily received, Macbeth,
    The news of thy success; and when he reads
    Thy personal venture in the rebels' fight,
    His wonders and his praises do contend
    Which should be thine or his. Silenced with that,
    In viewing o'er the rest o' the selfsame day,
    He finds thee in the stout Norweyan ranks,
    Nothing afeard of what thyself didst make,
    Strange images of death. As thick as hail
    Came post with post, and every one did bear
    Thy praises in his kingdom's great defense,
    And pour'd them down before him.
  ANGUS. We are sent
    To give thee, from our royal master, thanks;
    Only to herald thee into his sight,
    Not pay thee.
  ROSS. And for an earnest of a greater honor,
    He bade me, from him, call thee Thane of Cawdor.
    In which addition, hail, most worthy Thane,
    For it is thine. 
  BANQUO. What, can the devil speak true?
  MACBETH. The Thane of Cawdor lives. Why do you dress me
    In borrow'd robes?
  ANGUS. Who was the Thane lives yet,
    But under heavy judgement bears that life
    Which he deserves to lose. Whether he was combined
    With those of Norway, or did line the rebel
    With hidden help and vantage, or that with both
    He labor'd in his country's wreck, I know not;
    But treasons capital, confess'd and proved,
    Have overthrown him.
  MACBETH. [Aside.] Glamis, and Thane of Cawdor!
    The greatest is behind. [To Ross and Angus] Thanks for your
      pains.
    [Aside to Banquo] Do you not hope your children shall be
kings,
    When those that gave the Thane of Cawdor to me
    Promised no less to them?
  BANQUO. [Aside to Macbeth.] That, trusted home,
    Might yet enkindle you unto the crown,
    Besides the Thane of Cawdor. But 'tis strange; 
    And oftentimes, to win us to our harm,
    The instruments of darkness tell us truths,
    Win us with honest trifles, to betray's
    In deepest consequence-
    Cousins, a word, I pray you.
  MACBETH. [Aside.] Two truths are told,
    As happy prologues to the swelling act
    Of the imperial theme-I thank you, gentlemen.
    [Aside.] This supernatural soliciting
    Cannot be ill, cannot be good. If ill,
    Why hath it given me earnest of success,
    Commencing in a truth? I am Thane of Cawdor.
    If good, why do I yield to that suggestion
    Whose horrid image doth unfix my hair
    And make my seated heart knock at my ribs,
    Against the use of nature? Present fears
    Are less than horrible imaginings:
    My thought, whose murther yet is but fantastical,
    Shakes so my single state of man that function
    Is smother'd in surmise, and nothing is 
    But what is not.
  BANQUO. Look, how our partner's rapt.
  MACBETH. [Aside.] If chance will have me King, why, chance may
      crown me
    Without my stir.
  BANQUO. New honors come upon him,
    Like our strange garments, cleave not to their mould
    But with the aid of use.
  MACBETH. [Aside.] Come what come may,
    Time and the hour runs through the roughest day.
  BANQUO. Worthy Macbeth, we stay upon your leisure.
  MACBETH. Give me your favor; my dull brain was wrought
    With things forgotten. Kind gentlemen, your pains
    Are register'd where every day I turn
    The leaf to read them. Let us toward the King.
    Think upon what hath chanced, and at more time,
    The interim having weigh'd it, let us speak
    Our free hearts each to other.
  BANQUO. Very gladly.
  MACBETH. Till then, enough. Come, friends.             Exeunt.




SCENE IV.
Forres. The palace.

Flourish. Enter Duncan, Malcolm, Donalbain, Lennox, and
Attendants.

  DUNCAN. Is execution done on Cawdor? Are not
    Those in commission yet return'd?
  MALCOLM. My liege,
    They are not yet come back. But I have spoke
    With one that saw him die, who did report
    That very frankly he confess'd his treasons,
    Implored your Highness' pardon, and set forth
    A deep repentance. Nothing in his life
    Became him like the leaving it; he died
    As one that had been studied in his death,
    To throw away the dearest thing he owed
    As 'twere a careless trifle.
  DUNCAN. There's no art
    To find the mind's construction in the face:
    He was a gentleman on whom I built
    An absolute trust. 

             Enter Macbeth, Banquo, Ross, and Angus.

    O worthiest cousin!
    The sin of my ingratitude even now
    Was heavy on me. Thou art so far before,
    That swiftest wing of recompense is slow
    To overtake thee. Would thou hadst less deserved,
    That the proportion both of thanks and payment
    Might have been mine! Only I have left to say,
    More is thy due than more than all can pay.
  MACBETH. The service and the loyalty lowe,
    In doing it, pays itself. Your Highness' part
    Is to receive our duties, and our duties
    Are to your throne and state, children and servants,
    Which do but what they should, by doing everything
    Safe toward your love and honor.
  DUNCAN. Welcome hither.
    I have begun to plant thee, and will labor
    To make thee full of growing. Noble Banquo, 
    That hast no less deserved, nor must be known
    No less to have done so; let me infold thee
    And hold thee to my heart.
  BANQUO. There if I grow,
    The harvest is your own.
  DUNCAN. My plenteous joys,
    Wanton in fullness, seek to hide themselves
    In drops of sorrow. Sons, kinsmen, thanes,
    And you whose places are the nearest, know
    We will establish our estate upon
    Our eldest, Malcolm, whom we name hereafter
    The Prince of Cumberland; which honor must
    Not unaccompanied invest him only,
    But signs of nobleness, like stars, shall shine
    On all deservers. From hence to Inverness,
    And bind us further to you.
  MACBETH. The rest is labor, which is not used for you.
    I'll be myself the harbinger, and make joyful
    The hearing of my wife with your approach;
    So humbly take my leave. 
  DUNCAN. My worthy Cawdor!
  MACBETH. [Aside.] The Prince of Cumberland! That is a step
    On which I must fall down, or else o'erleap,
    For in my way it lies. Stars, hide your fires;
    Let not light see my black and deep desires.
    The eye wink at the hand; yet let that be
    Which the eye fears, when it is done, to see.          Exit.
  DUNCAN. True, worthy Banquo! He is full so valiant,
    And in his commendations I am fed;
    It is a banquet to me. Let's after him,
    Whose care is gone before to bid us welcome.
    It is a peerless kinsman.                  Flourish. Exeunt.




SCENE V.
Inverness. Macbeth's castle.

Enter Lady Macbeth, reading a letter.

  LADY MACBETH. "They met me in the day of success, and I have
    learned by the perfectest report they have more in them than
    mortal knowledge. When I burned in desire to question them
    further, they made themselves air, into which they vanished.
    Whiles I stood rapt in the wonder of it, came missives from
the
    King, who all-hailed me 'Thane of Cawdor'; by which title,
    before, these weird sisters saluted me and referred me to the
    coming on of time with 'Hail, King that shalt be!' This have
I
    thought good to deliver thee, my dearest partner of
greatness,
    that thou mightst not lose the dues of rejoicing, by being
    ignorant of what greatness is promised thee. Lay it to thy
heart,
    and farewell."

    Glamis thou art, and Cawdor, and shalt be
    What thou art promised. Yet do I fear thy nature.
    It is too full o' the milk of human kindness
    To catch the nearest way. Thou wouldst be great; 
    Art not without ambition, but without
    The illness should attend it. What thou wouldst highly,
    That wouldst thou holily; wouldst not play false,
    And yet wouldst wrongly win. Thou'ldst have, great Glamis,
    That which cries, "Thus thou must do, if thou have it;
    And that which rather thou dost fear to do
    Than wishest should be undone." Hie thee hither,
    That I may pour my spirits in thine ear,
    And chastise with the valor of my tongue
    All that impedes thee from the golden round,
    Which fate and metaphysical aid doth seem
    To have thee crown'd withal.

                     Enter a Messenger.

    What is your tidings?
  MESSENGER. The King comes here tonight.
  LADY MACBETH. Thou'rt mad to say it!
    Is not thy master with him? who, were't so,
    Would have inform'd for preparation. 
  MESSENGER. So please you, it is true; our Thane is coming.
    One of my fellows had the speed of him,
    Who, almost dead for breath, had scarcely more
    Than would make up his message.
  LADY MACBETH. Give him tending;
    He brings great news.                        Exit Messenger.
    The raven himself is hoarse
    That croaks the fatal entrance of Duncan
    Under my battlements. Come, you spirits
    That tend on mortal thoughts, unsex me here
    And fill me from the crown to the toe top-full
    Of direst cruelty! Make thick my blood,
    Stop up the access and passage to remorse,
    That no compunctious visitings of nature
    Shake my fell purpose nor keep peace between
    The effect and it! Come to my woman's breasts,
    And take my milk for gall, your murthering ministers,
    Wherever in your sightless substances
    You wait on nature's mischief! Come, thick night,
    And pall thee in the dunnest smoke of hell 
    That my keen knife see not the wound it makes
    Nor heaven peep through the blanket of the dark
    To cry, "Hold, hold!"

                    Enter Macbeth.

    Great Glamis! Worthy Cawdor!
    Greater than both, by the all-hail hereafter!
    Thy letters have transported me beyond
    This ignorant present, and I feel now
    The future in the instant.
  MACBETH. My dearest love,
    Duncan comes here tonight.
  LADY MACBETH. And when goes hence?
  MACBETH. Tomorrow, as he purposes.
  LADY MACBETH. O, never
    Shall sun that morrow see!
    Your face, my Thane, is as a book where men
    May read strange matters. To beguile the time,
    Look like the time; bear welcome in your eye, 
    Your hand, your tongue; look like the innocent flower,
    But be the serpent under it. He that's coming
    Must be provided for; and you shall put
    This night's great business into my dispatch,
    Which shall to all our nights and days to come
    Give solely sovereign sway and masterdom.
  MACBETH. We will speak further.
  LADY MACBETH. Only look up clear;
    To alter favor ever is to fear.
    Leave all the rest to me.                            Exeunt.




SCENE VI.
Before Macbeth's castle.  Hautboys and torches.

Enter Duncan, Malcolm, Donalbain, Banquo, Lennox, Macduff, Ross,
Angus,
and Attendants.

  DUNCAN. This castle hath a pleasant seat; the air
    Nimbly and sweetly recommends itself
    Unto our gentle senses.
  BANQUO. This guest of summer,
    The temple-haunting martlet, does approve
    By his loved mansionry that the heaven's breath
    Smells wooingly here. No jutty, frieze,
    Buttress, nor coign of vantage, but this bird
    Hath made his pendant bed and procreant cradle;
    Where they most breed and haunt, I have observed
    The air is delicate.

                     Enter Lady Macbeth.

  DUNCAN. See, see, our honor'd hostess!
    The love that follows us sometime is our trouble, 
    Which still we thank as love. Herein I teach you
    How you shall bid God 'ield us for your pains,
    And thank us for your trouble.
  LADY MACBETH. All our service
    In every point twice done, and then done double,
    Were poor and single business to contend
    Against those honors deep and broad wherewith
    Your Majesty loads our house. For those of old,
    And the late dignities heap'd up to them,
    We rest your hermits.
  DUNCAN. Where's the Thane of Cawdor?
    We coursed him at the heels and had a purpose
    To be his purveyor; but he rides well,
    And his great love, sharp as his spur, hath holp him
    To his home before us. Fair and noble hostess,
    We are your guest tonight.
  LADY MACBETH. Your servants ever
    Have theirs, themselves, and what is theirs, in compt,
    To make their audit at your Highness' pleasure,
    Still to return your own. 
  DUNCAN. Give me your hand;
    Conduct me to mine host. We love him highly,
    And shall continue our graces towards him.
    By your leave, hostess.                              Exeunt.




SCENE VII
Macbeth's castle.  Hautboys and torches.

Enter a Sewer and divers Servants with dishes and service, who
pass over
the stage.  Then enter Macbeth.

  MACBETH. If it were done when 'tis done, then 'twere well
    It were done quickly. If the assassination
    Could trammel up the consequence, and catch,
    With his surcease, success; that but this blow
    Might be the be-all and the end-all -here,
    But here, upon this bank and shoal of time,
    We'ld jump the life to come. But in these cases
    We still have judgement here, that we but teach
    Bloody instructions, which being taught return
    To plague the inventor. This even-handed justice
    Commends the ingredients of our poison'd chalice
    To our own lips. He's here in double trust:
    First, as I am his kinsman and his subject,
    Strong both against the deed; then, as his host,
    Who should against his murtherer shut the door, 
    Not bear the knife myself. Besides, this Duncan
    Hath borne his faculties so meek, hath been
    So clear in his great office, that his virtues
    Will plead like angels trumpet-tongued against
    The deep damnation of his taking-off,
    And pity, like a naked new-born babe
    Striding the blast, or heaven's cherubin horsed
    Upon the sightless couriers of the air,
    Shall blow the horrid deed in every eye,
    That tears shall drown the wind. I have no spur
    To prick the sides of my intent, but only
    Vaulting ambition, which o'erleaps itself
    And falls on the other.

                 Enter Lady Macbeth.

    How now, what news?
  LADY MACBETH. He has almost supp'd. Why have you left the
chamber?
  MACBETH. Hath he ask'd for me?
  LADY MACBETH. Know you not he has? 
  MACBETH. We will proceed no further in this business:
    He hath honor'd me of late, and I have bought
    Golden opinions from all sorts of people,
    Which would be worn now in their newest gloss,
    Not cast aside so soon.
  LADY MACBETH. Was the hope drunk
    Wherein you dress'd yourself? Hath it slept since?
    And wakes it now, to look so green and pale
    At what it did so freely? From this time
    Such I account thy love. Art thou afeard
    To be the same in thine own act and valor
    As thou art in desire? Wouldst thou have that
    Which thou esteem'st the ornament of life
    And live a coward in thine own esteem,
    Letting "I dare not" wait upon "I would"
    Like the poor cat i' the adage?
  MACBETH. Prithee, peace!
    I dare do all that may become a man;
    Who dares do more is none.
  LADY MACBETH. What beast wast then 
    That made you break this enterprise to me?
    When you durst do it, then you were a man,
    And, to be more than what you were, you would
    Be so much more the man. Nor time nor place
    Did then adhere, and yet you would make both.
    They have made themselves, and that their fitness now
    Does unmake you. I have given suck and know
    How tender 'tis to love the babe that milks me-
    I would, while it was smiling in my face,
    Have pluck'd my nipple from his boneless gums
    And dash'd the brains out had I so sworn as you
    Have done to this.
  MACBETH. If we should fail?
  LADY MACBETH. We fail?
    But screw your courage to the sticking-place
    And we'll not fail. When Duncan is asleep-
    Whereto the rather shall his day's hard journey
    Soundly invite him- his two chamberlains
    Will I with wine and wassail so convince
    That memory, the warder of the brain, 
    Shall be a fume and the receipt of reason
    A limbeck only. When in swinish sleep
    Their drenched natures lie as in a death,
    What cannot you and I perform upon
    The unguarded Duncan? What not put upon
    His spongy officers, who shall bear the guilt
    Of our great quell?
  MACBETH. Bring forth men-children only,
    For thy undaunted mettle should compose
    Nothing but males. Will it not be received,
    When we have mark'd with blood those sleepy two
    Of his own chamber and used their very daggers,
    That they have done't?
  LADY MACBETH. Who dares receive it other,
    As we shall make our griefs and clamor roar
    Upon his death?
  MACBETH. I am settled and bend up
    Each corporal agent to this terrible feat.
    Away, and mock the time with fairest show:
    False face must hide what the false heart doth know. 
                                                         Exeunt.




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



ACT II. SCENE I.
Inverness. Court of Macbeth's castle.

Enter Banquo and Fleance, bearing a torch before him.

  BANQUO. How goes the night, boy?
  FLEANCE. The moon is down; I have not heard the clock.
  BANQUO. And she goes down at twelve.
  FLEANCE. I take't 'tis later, sir.
  BANQUO. Hold, take my sword. There's husbandry in heaven,
    Their candles are all out. Take thee that too.
    A heavy summons lies like lead upon me,
    And yet I would not sleep. Merciful powers,
    Restrain in me the cursed thoughts that nature
    Gives way to in repose!

           Enter Macbeth and a Servant with a torch.

    Give me my sword.
    Who's there?
  MACBETH. A friend.
  BANQUO. What, sir, not yet at rest? The King's abed. 
    He hath been in unusual pleasure and
    Sent forth great largess to your offices.
    This diamond he greets your wife withal,
    By the name of most kind hostess, and shut up
    In measureless content.
  MACBETH. Being unprepared,
    Our will became the servant to defect,
    Which else should free have wrought.
  BANQUO. All's well.
    I dreamt last night of the three weird sisters:
    To you they have show'd some truth.
  MACBETH. I think not of them;
    Yet, when we can entreat an hour to serve,
    We would spend it in some words upon that business,
    If you would grant the time.
  BANQUO. At your kind'st leisure.
  MACBETH. If you shall cleave to my consent, when 'tis,
    It shall make honor for you.
  BANQUO. So I lose none
    In seeking to augment it, but still keep 
    My bosom franchised and allegiance clear,
    I shall be counsel'd.
  MACBETH. Good repose the while.
  BANQUO. Thanks, sir, the like to you.
                                     Exeunt Banquo. and Fleance.
  MACBETH. Go bid thy mistress, when my drink is ready,
    She strike upon the bell. Get thee to bed.     Exit Servant.
    Is this a dagger which I see before me,
    The handle toward my hand? Come, let me clutch thee.
    I have thee not, and yet I see thee still.
    Art thou not, fatal vision, sensible
    To feeling as to sight? Or art thou but
    A dagger of the mind, a false creation,
    Proceeding from the heat-oppressed brain?
    I see thee yet, in form as palpable
    As this which now I draw.
    Thou marshal'st me the way that I was going,
    And such an instrument I was to use.
    Mine eyes are made the fools o' the other senses,
    Or else worth all the rest. I see thee still, 
    And on thy blade and dudgeon gouts of blood,
    Which was not so before. There's no such thing:
    It is the bloody business which informs
    Thus to mine eyes. Now o'er the one half-world
    Nature seems dead, and wicked dreams abuse
    The curtain'd sleep; witchcraft celebrates
    Pale Hecate's offerings; and wither'd Murther,
    Alarum'd by his sentinel, the wolf,
    Whose howl's his watch, thus with his stealthy pace,
    With Tarquin's ravishing strides, towards his design
    Moves like a ghost. Thou sure and firm-set earth,
    Hear not my steps, which way they walk, for fear
    Thy very stones prate of my whereabout,
    And take the present horror from the time,
    Which now suits with it. Whiles I threat, he lives;
    Words to the heat of deeds too cold breath gives.
                                                   A bell rings.
    I go, and it is done; the bell invites me.
    Hear it not, Duncan, for it is a knell
    That summons thee to heaven, or to hell.               Exit.




SCENE II.
The same.

Enter Lady Macbeth.

  LADY MACBETH. That which hath made them drunk hath made me
bold;
    What hath quench'd them hath given me fire. Hark! Peace!
    It was the owl that shriek'd, the fatal bellman,
    Which gives the stern'st good night. He is about it:
    The doors are open, and the surfeited grooms
    Do mock their charge with snores. I have drugg'd their
possets
    That death and nature do contend about them,
    Whether they live or die.
  MACBETH. [Within.] Who's there' what, ho!
  LADY MACBETH. Alack, I am afraid they have awaked
    And 'tis not done. The attempt and not the deed
    Confounds us. Hark! I laid their daggers ready;
    He could not miss 'em. Had he not resembled
    My father as he slept, I had done't.

                      Enter Macbeth,
 
    My husband!
  MACBETH. I have done the deed. Didst thou not hear a noise?
  LADY MACBETH. I heard the owl scream and the crickets cry.
    Did not you speak?
  MACBETH. When?
  LADY MACBETH. Now.
  MACBETH. As I descended?
  LADY MACBETH. Ay.
  MACBETH. Hark!
    Who lies i' the second chamber?
  LADY MACBETH. Donalbain.
  MACBETH. This is a sorry sight.           [Looks on his hands.
  LADY MACBETH. A foolish thought, to say a sorry sight.
  MACBETH. There's one did laugh in 's sleep, and one cried,
      "Murther!"
    That they did wake each other. I stood and heard them,
    But they did say their prayers and address'd them
    Again to sleep.
  LADY MACBETH. There are two lodged together.
  MACBETH. One cried, "God bless us!" and "Amen" the other, 
    As they had seen me with these hangman's hands.
    Listening their fear, I could not say "Amen,"
    When they did say, "God bless us!"
  LADY MACBETH. Consider it not so deeply.
  MACBETH. But wherefore could not I pronounce "Amen"?
    I had most need of blessing, and "Amen"
    Stuck in my throat.
  LADY MACBETH. These deeds must not be thought
    After these ways; so, it will make us mad.
  MACBETH. I heard a voice cry, "Sleep no more!
    Macbeth does murther sleep" -the innocent sleep,
    Sleep that knits up the ravel'd sleave of care,
    The death of each day's life, sore labor's bath,
    Balm of hurt minds, great nature's second course,
    Chief nourisher in life's feast-
  LADY MACBETH. What do you mean?
  MACBETH. Still it cried, "Sleep no more!" to all the house;
    "Glamis hath murther'd sleep, and therefore Cawdor
    Shall sleep no more. Macbeth shall sleep no more."
  LADY MACBETH. Who was it that thus cried? Why, worthy Thane, 
    You do unbend your noble strength, to think
    So brainsickly of things. Go, get some water
    And wash this filthy witness from your hand.
    Why did you bring these daggers from the place?
    They must lie there. Go carry them, and smear
    The sleepy grooms with blood.
  MACBETH. I'll go no more.
    I am afraid to think what I have done;
    Look on't again I dare not.
  LADY MACBETH. Infirm of purpose!
    Give me the daggers. The sleeping and the dead
    Are but as pictures; 'tis the eye of childhood
    That fears a painted devil. If he do bleed,
    I'll gild the faces of the grooms withal,
    For it must seem their guilt.         Exit. Knocking within.
  MACBETH. Whence is that knocking?
    How is't with me, when every noise appals me?
    What hands are here? Ha, they pluck out mine eyes!
    Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood
    Clean from my hand? No, this my hand will rather 
    The multitudinous seas incarnadine,
    Making the green one red.

                   Re-enter Lady Macbeth.

  LADY MACBETH. My hands are of your color, but I shame
    To wear a heart so white. [Knocking within.] I hear knocking
    At the south entry. Retire we to our chamber.
    A little water clears us of this deed.
    How easy is it then! Your constancy
    Hath left you unattended. [Knocking within.] Hark, more
knocking.
    Get on your nightgown, lest occasion call us
    And show us to be watchers. Be not lost
    So poorly in your thoughts.
  MACBETH. To know my deed, 'twere best not know myself.
                                                Knocking within.
    Wake Duncan with thy knocking! I would thou couldst!
                                                         Exeunt.




SCENE III.
The same.

Enter a Porter. Knocking within.

  PORTER. Here's a knocking indeed! If a man were porter of Hell
    Gate, he should have old turning the key. [Knocking within.]
    Knock, knock, knock! Who's there, i' the name of Belzebub?
Here's
    a farmer that hanged himself on th' expectation of plenty.
Come
    in time! Have napkins enow about you; here you'll sweat fort.
    [Knocking within.] Knock, knock! Who's there, in th' other
    devil's name? Faith, here's an equivocator that could swear
in
    both the scales against either scale, who committed treason
    enough for God's sake, yet could not equivocate to heaven. O,
    come in, equivocator. [Knocking within.] Knock, knock, knock!
    Who's there? Faith, here's an English tailor come hither, for
    stealing out of a French hose. Come in, tailor; here you may
    roast your goose. [Knocking within.] Knock, knock! Never at
    quiet! What are you? But this place is too cold for hell.
I'll
    devil-porter it no further. I had thought to have let in some
of
    all professions, that go the primrose way to the everlasting
    bonfire. [Knocking within.] Anon, anon! I pray you, remember
the 
    porter.
                                                 Opens the gate.

                       Enter Macduff and Lennox.

  MACDUFF. Was it so late, friend, ere you went to bed,
    That you do lie so late?
  PORTER. Faith, sir, we were carousing till the second cock; and
    drink, sir, is a great provoker of three things.
  MACDUFF. What three things does drink especially provoke?
  PORTER. Marry, sir, nose-painting, sleep, and urine. Lechery,
sir,
    it provokes and unprovokes: it provokes the desire, but it
takes
    away the performance. Therefore much drink may be said to be
an
    equivocator with lechery: it makes him, and it mars him; it
sets
    him on, and it takes him off; it persuades him and
disheartens
    him; makes him stand to and not stand to; in conclusion,
    equivocates him in a sleep, and giving him the lie, leaves
him.
  MACDUFF. I believe drink gave thee the lie last night.
  PORTER. That it did, sir, i' the very throat on me; but
requited
    him for his lie, and, I think, being too strong for him,
though 
    he took up my legs sometime, yet I made shift to cast him.
  MACDUFF. Is thy master stirring?

                             Enter Macbeth.

    Our knocking has awaked him; here he comes.
  LENNOX. Good morrow, noble sir.
  MACBETH. morrow, both.
  MACDUFF. Is the King stirring, worthy Thane?
  MACBETH. Not yet.
  MACDUFF. He did command me to call timely on him;
    I have almost slipp'd the hour.
  MACBETH. I'll bring you to him.
  MACDUFF. I know this is a joyful trouble to you,
    But yet 'tis one.
  MACBETH. The labor we delight in physics pain.
    This is the door.
  MACDUFF I'll make so bold to call,
    For 'tis my limited service.                           Exit.
  LENNOX. Goes the King hence today? 
  MACBETH. He does; he did appoint so.
  LENNOX. The night has been unruly. Where we lay,
    Our chimneys were blown down, and, as they say,
    Lamentings heard i' the air, strange screams of death,
    And prophesying with accents terrible
    Of dire combustion and confused events
    New hatch'd to the woeful time. The obscure bird
    Clamor'd the livelong night. Some say the earth
    Was feverous and did shake.
  MACBETH. 'Twas a rough fight.
  LENNOX. My young remembrance cannot parallel
    A fellow to it.

                      Re-enter Macduff.

  MACDUFF. O horror, horror, horror! Tongue nor heart
    Cannot conceive nor name thee.
  MACBETH. LENNOX. What's the matter?
  MACDUFF. Confusion now hath made his masterpiece.
    Most sacrilegious murther hath broke ope 
    The Lord's anointed temple and stole thence
    The life o' the building.
  MACBETH. What is't you say? the life?
  LENNOX. Mean you his Majesty?
  MACDUFF. Approach the chamber, and destroy your sight
    With a new Gorgon. Do not bid me speak;
    See, and then speak yourselves.
                                      Exeunt Macbeth and Lennox.
    Awake, awake!
    Ring the alarum bell. Murther and treason!
    Banquo and Donalbain! Malcolm, awake!
    Shake off this downy sleep, death's counterfeit,
    And look on death itself! Up, up, and see
    The great doom's image! Malcolm! Banquo!
    As from your graves rise up, and walk like sprites
    To countenance this horror! Ring the bell.       Bell rings.

                     Enter Lady Macbeth.

  LADY MACBETH. What's the business, 
    That such a hideous trumpet calls to parley
    The sleepers of the house? Speak, speak!
  MACDUFF. O gentle lady,
    'Tis not for you to hear what I can speak:
    The repetition in a woman's ear
    Would murther as it fell.

                     Enter Banquo.

    O Banquo, Banquo!
    Our royal master's murther'd.
  LADY MACBETH. Woe, alas!
    What, in our house?
  BANQUO. Too cruel anywhere.
    Dear Duff, I prithee, contradict thyself,
    And say it is not so.

          Re-enter Macbeth and Lennox, with Ross.

  MACBETH. Had I but died an hour before this chance, 
    I had lived a blessed time, for from this instant
    There's nothing serious in mortality.
    All is but toys; renown and grace is dead,
    The wine of life is drawn, and the mere lees
    Is left this vault to brag of.

                Enter Malcolm and Donalbain.

  DONALBAIN. What is amiss?
  MACBETH. You are, and do not know't.
    The spring, the head, the fountain of your blood
    Is stopped, the very source of it is stopp'd.
  MACDUFF. Your royal father's murther'd.
   MALCOLM. O, by whom?
  LENNOX. Those of his chamber, as it seem'd, had done't.
    Their hands and faces were all badged with blood;
    So were their daggers, which unwiped we found
    Upon their pillows.
    They stared, and were distracted; no man's life
    Was to be trusted with them. 
  MACBETH. O, yet I do repent me of my fury,
    That I did kill them.
  MACDUFF. Wherefore did you so?
  MACBETH. Who can be wise, amazed, temperate and furious,
    Loyal and neutral, in a moment? No man.
    The expedition of my violent love
    Outrun the pauser reason. Here lay Duncan,
    His silver skin laced with his golden blood,
    And his gash'd stabs look'd like a breach in nature
    For ruin's wasteful entrance; there, the murtherers,
    Steep'd in the colors of their trade, their daggers
    Unmannerly breech'd with gore. Who could refrain,
    That had a heart to love, and in that heart
    Courage to make 's love known?
  LADY MACBETH. Help me hence, ho!
  MACDUFF. Look to the lady.
  MALCOLM. [Aside to Donalbain.] Why do we hold our tongues,
    That most may claim this argument for ours?
  DONALBAIN. [Aside to Malcolm.] What should be spoken here,
where
      our fate, 
    Hid in an auger hole, may rush and seize us?
    Let's away,
    Our tears are not yet brew'd.
  MALCOLM. [Aside to Donalbain.] Nor our strong sorrow
    Upon the foot of motion.
  BANQUO. Look to the lady.
                                    Lady Macbeth is carried out.
    And when we have our naked frailties hid,
    That suffer in exposure, let us meet
    And question this most bloody piece of work
    To know it further. Fears and scruples shake us.
    In the great hand of God I stand, and thence
    Against the undivulged pretense I fight
    Of treasonous malice.
  MACDUFF. And so do I.
  ALL. So all.
  MACBETH. Let's briefly put on manly readiness
    And meet i' the hall together.
  ALL. Well contented.
                           Exeunt all but Malcolm and Donalbain. 
  MALCOLM. What will you do? Let's not consort with them.
    To show an unfelt sorrow is an office
    Which the false man does easy. I'll to England.
  DONALBAIN. To Ireland, I; our separated fortune
    Shall keep us both the safer. Where we are
    There's daggers in men's smiles; the near in blood,
    The nearer bloody.
  MALCOLM. This murtherous shaft that's shot
    Hath not yet lighted, and our safest way
    Is to avoid the aim. Therefore to horse;
    And let us not be dainty of leave-taking,
    But shift away. There's warrant in that theft
    Which steals itself when there's no mercy left.
                                                         Exeunt.




SCENE IV.
Outside Macbeth's castle.

Enter Ross with an Old Man.

  OLD MAN. Threescore and ten I can remember well,
    Within the volume of which time I have seen
    Hours dreadful and things strange, but this sore night
    Hath trifled former knowings.
  ROSS. Ah, good father,
    Thou seest the heavens, as troubled with man's act,
    Threaten his bloody stage. By the clock 'tis day,
    And yet dark night strangles the traveling lamp.
    Is't night's predominance, or the day's shame,
    That darkness does the face of earth entomb,
    When living light should kiss it?
  OLD MAN. 'Tis unnatural,
    Even like the deed that's done. On Tuesday last
    A falcon towering in her pride of place
    Was by a mousing owl hawk'd at and kill'd.
  ROSS. And Duncan's horses-a thing most strange and certain-
    Beauteous and swift, the minions of their race, 
    Turn'd wild in nature, broke their stalls, flung out,
    Contending 'gainst obedience, as they would make
    War with mankind.
  OLD MAN. 'Tis said they eat each other.
  ROSS. They did so, to the amazement of mine eyes
    That look'd upon't.

                     Enter Macduff.

    Here comes the good Macduff.
    How goes the world, sir, now?
  MACDUFF. Why, see you not?
  ROSS. Is't known who did this more than bloody deed?
  MACDUFF. Those that Macbeth hath slain.
  ROSS. Alas, the day!
    What good could they pretend?
  MACDUFF. They were suborn'd:
    Malcolm and Donalbain, the King's two sons,
    Are stol'n away and fled, which puts upon them
    Suspicion of the deed. 
  ROSS. 'Gainst nature still!
    Thriftless ambition, that wilt ravin up
    Thine own life's means! Then 'tis most like
    The sovereignty will fall upon Macbeth.
  MACDUFF. He is already named, and gone to Scone
    To be invested.
  ROSS. Where is Duncan's body?
  MACDUFF. Carried to Colmekill,
    The sacred storehouse of his predecessors
    And guardian of their bones.
  ROSS. Will you to Scone?
  MACDUFF. No, cousin, I'll to Fife.
  ROSS. Well, I will thither.
  MACDUFF. Well, may you see things well done there.
    Adieu,
    Lest our old robes sit easier than our new!
  ROSS. Farewell, father.
  OLD MAN. God's benison go with you and with those
    That would make good of bad and friends of foes!
                                                         Exeunt.




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



ACT III. SCENE I.
Forres. The palace.

Enter Banquo.

  BANQUO. Thou hast it now: King, Cawdor, Glamis, all,
    As the weird women promised, and I fear
    Thou play'dst most foully for't; yet it was said
    It should not stand in thy posterity,
    But that myself should be the root and father
    Of many kings. If there come truth from them
    (As upon thee, Macbeth, their speeches shine)
    Why, by the verities on thee made good,
    May they not be my oracles as well
    And set me up in hope? But hush, no more.

      Sennet sounds. Enter Macbeth as King, Lady Macbeth
    as Queen, Lennox, Ross, Lords, Ladies, and Attendants.

  MACBETH. Here's our chief guest.
  LADY MACBETH. If he had been forgotten,
    It had been as a gap in our great feast 
    And all thing unbecoming.
  MACBETH. Tonight we hold a solemn supper, sir,
    And I'll request your presence.
  BANQUO. Let your Highness
    Command upon me, to the which my duties
    Are with a most indissoluble tie
    Forever knit.
  MACBETH. Ride you this afternoon?
  BANQUO. Ay, my good lord.
  MACBETH. We should have else desired your good advice,
    Which still hath been both grave and prosperous
    In this day's council; but we'll take tomorrow.
    Is't far you ride'!
  BANQUO. As far, my lord, as will fill up the time
    'Twixt this and supper. Go not my horse the better,
    I must become a borrower of the night
    For a dark hour or twain.
  MACBETH. Fail not our feast.
  BANQUO. My lord, I will not.
  MACBETH. We hear our bloody cousins are bestow'd 
    In England and in Ireland, not confessing
    Their cruel parricide, filling their hearers
    With strange invention. But of that tomorrow,
    When therewithal we shall have cause of state
    Craving us jointly. Hie you to horse; adieu,
    Till you return at night. Goes Fleance with you?
  BANQUO. Ay, my good lord. Our time does call upon 's.
  MACBETH. I wish your horses swift and sure of foot,
    And so I do commend you to their backs.
    Farewell.                                       Exit Banquo.
    Let every man be master of his time
    Till seven at night; to make society
    The sweeter welcome, we will keep ourself
    Till supper time alone. While then, God be with you!
                        Exeunt all but Macbeth and an Attendant.
    Sirrah, a word with you. Attend those men
    Our pleasure?
  ATTENDANT. They are, my lord, without the palace gate.
  MACBETH. Bring them before us.                 Exit Attendant.
    To be thus is nothing, 
    But to be safely thus. Our fears in Banquo.
    Stick deep, and in his royalty of nature
    Reigns that which would be fear'd. 'Tis much he dares,
    And, to that dauntless temper of his mind,
    He hath a wisdom that doth guide his valor
    To act in safety. There is none but he
    Whose being I do fear; and under him
    My genius is rebuked, as it is said
    Mark Antony's was by Caesar. He chid the sisters
    When first they put the name of King upon me
    And bade them speak to him; then prophet-like
    They hail'd him father to a line of kings.
    Upon my head they placed a fruitless crown
    And put a barren sceptre in my gripe,
    Thence to be wrench'd with an unlineal hand,
    No son of mine succeeding. If't be so,
    For Banquo's issue have I filed my mind,
    For them the gracious Duncan have I murther'd,
    Put rancors in the vessel of my peace
    Only for them, and mine eternal jewel 
    Given to the common enemy of man,
    To make them kings -the seed of Banquo kings!
    Rather than so, come, Fate, into the list,
    And champion me to the utterance! Who's there?

        Re-enter Attendant, with two Murtherers.

    Now go to the door, and stay there till we call.
                                                 Exit Attendant.
    Was it not yesterday we spoke together?
  FIRST MURTHERER. It was, so please your Highness.
  MACBETH. Well then, now
    Have you consider'd of my speeches? Know
    That it was he in the times past which held you
    So under fortune, which you thought had been
    Our innocent self? This I made good to you
    In our last conference, pass'd in probation with you:
    How you were borne in hand, how cross'd, the instruments,
    Who wrought with them, and all things else that might
    To half a soul and to a notion crazed 
    Say, "Thus did Banquo."
  FIRST MURTHERER. You made it known to us.
  MACBETH. I did so, and went further, which is now
    Our point of second meeting. Do you find
    Your patience so predominant in your nature,
    That you can let this go? Are you so gospel'd,
    To pray for this good man and for his issue,
    Whose heavy hand hath bow'd you to the grave
    And beggar'd yours forever?
  FIRST MURTHERER. We are men, my liege.
  MACBETH. Ay, in the catalogue ye go for men,
    As hounds and greyhounds, mongrels, spaniels, curs,
    Shoughs, waterrugs, and demi-wolves are clept
    All by the name of dogs. The valued file
    Distinguishes the swift, the slow, the subtle,
    The housekeeper, the hunter, every one
    According to the gift which bounteous nature
    Hath in him closed, whereby he does receive
    Particular addition, from the bill
    That writes them all alike; and so of men. 
    Now if you have a station in the file,
    Not i' the worst rank of manhood, say it,
    And I will put that business in your bosoms
    Whose execution takes your enemy off,
    Grapples you to the heart and love of us,
    Who wear our health but sickly in his life,
    Which in his death were perfect.
  SECOND MURTHERER. I am one, my liege,
    Whom the vile blows and buffets of the world
    Have so incensed that I am reckless what
    I do to spite the world.
  FIRST MURTHERER. And I another
    So weary with disasters, tugg'd with fortune,
    That I would set my life on any chance,
    To mend it or be rid on't.
  MACBETH. Both of you
    Know Banquo was your enemy.
  BOTH MURTHERERS. True, my lord.
  MACBETH. So is he mine, and in such bloody distance
    That every minute of his being thrusts 
    Against my near'st of life; and though I could
    With barefaced power sweep him from my sight
    And bid my will avouch it, yet I must not,
    For certain friends that are both his and mine,
    Whose loves I may not drop, but wail his fall
    Who I myself struck down. And thence it is
    That I to your assistance do make love,
    Masking the business from the common eye
    For sundry weighty reasons.
  SECOND MURTHERER. We shall, my lord,
    Perform what you command us.
  FIRST MURTHERER. Though our lives-
  MACBETH. Your spirits shine through you. Within this hour at
most
    I will advise you where to plant yourselves,
    Acquaint you with the perfect spy o' the time,
    The moment on't; fort must be done tonight
    And something from the palace (always thought
    That I require a clearness); and with him-
    To leave no rubs nor botches in the work-
    Fleance his son, that keeps him company, 
    Whose absence is no less material to me
    Than is his father's, must embrace the fate
    Of that dark hour. Resolve yourselves apart;
    I'll come to you anon.
  BOTH MURTHERERS. We are resolved, my lord.
  MACBETH. I'll call upon you straight. Abide within.
                                              Exeunt Murtherers.
    It is concluded: Banquo, thy soul's flight,
    If it find heaven, must find it out tonight.           Exit.




SCENE II.
The palace.

Enter Lady Macbeth and a Servant.

  LADY MACBETH. Is Banquo gone from court?
  SERVANT. Ay, madam, but returns again tonight.
  LADY MACBETH. Say to the King I would attend his leisure
    For a few words.
  SERVANT. Madam, I will.                                  Exit.
  LADY MACBETH. Nought's had, all's spent,
    Where our desire is got without content.
    'Tis safer to be that which we destroy
    Than by destruction dwell in doubtful joy.

                    Enter Macbeth.

    How now, my lord? Why do you keep alone,
    Of sorriest fancies your companions making,
    Using those thoughts which should indeed have died
    With them they think on? Things without all remedy
    Should be without regard. What's done is done. 
  MACBETH. We have scotch'd the snake, not kill'd it.
    She'll close and be herself, whilst our poor malice
    Remains in danger of her former tooth.
    But let the frame of things disjoint, both the worlds suffer,
    Ere we will eat our meal in fear and sleep
    In the affliction of these terrible dreams
    That shake us nightly. Better be with the dead,
    Whom we, to gain our peace, have sent to peace,
    Than on the torture of the mind to lie
    In restless ecstasy. Duncan is in his grave;
    After life's fitful fever he sleeps well.
    Treason has done his worst; nor steel, nor poison,
    Malice domestic, foreign levy, nothing,
    Can touch him further.
  LADY MACBETH. Come on,
    Gentle my lord, sleek o'er your rugged looks;
    Be bright and jovial among your guests tonight.
  MACBETH. So shall I, love, and so, I pray, be you.
    Let your remembrance apply to Banquo;
    Present him eminence, both with eye and tongue: 
    Unsafe the while, that we
    Must lave our honors in these flattering streams,
    And make our faces vizards to our hearts,
    Disguising what they are.
  LADY MACBETH. You must leave this.
  MACBETH. O, full of scorpions is my mind, dear wife!
    Thou know'st that Banquo and his Fleance lives.
  LADY MACBETH. But in them nature's copy's not eterne.
  MACBETH. There's comfort yet; they are assailable.
    Then be thou jocund. Ere the bat hath flown
    His cloister'd flight, ere to black Hecate's summons
    The shard-borne beetle with his drowsy hums
    Hath rung night's yawning peal, there shall be done
    A deed of dreadful note.
  LADY MACBETH. What's to be done?
  MACBETH. Be innocent of the knowledge, dearest chuck,
    Till thou applaud the deed. Come, seeling night,
    Scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day,
    And with thy bloody and invisible hand
    Cancel and tear to pieces that great bond 
    Which keeps me pale! Light thickens, and the crow
    Makes wing to the rooky wood;
    Good things of day begin to droop and drowse,
    Whiles night's black agents to their preys do rouse.
    Thou marvel'st at my words, but hold thee still:
    Things bad begun make strong themselves by ill.
    So, prithee, go with me.                             Exeunt.




SCENE III.
A park near the palace.

Enter three Murtherers.

  FIRST MURTHERER. But who did bid thee join with us?
  THIRD MURTHERER. Macbeth.
  SECOND MURTHERER. He needs not our mistrust, since he delivers
    Our offices and what we have to do
    To the direction just.
  FIRST MURTHERER. Then stand with us.
    The west yet glimmers with some streaks of day;
    Now spurs the lated traveler apace
    To gain the timely inn, and near approaches
    The subject of our watch.
  THIRD MURTHERER. Hark! I hear horses.
  BANQUO. [Within.] Give us a light there, ho!
  SECOND MURTHERER. Then 'tis he; the rest
    That are within the note of expectation
    Already are i' the court.
  FIRST MURTHERER. His horses go about.
  THIRD MURTHERER. Almost a mile, but he does usually- 
    So all men do -from hence to the palace gate
    Make it their walk.
  SECOND MURTHERER. A light, a light!

              Enter Banquo, and Fleance with a torch.

  THIRD MURTHERER. 'Tis he.
  FIRST MURTHERER. Stand to't.
  BANQUO. It will be rain tonight.
  FIRST MURTHERER. Let it come down.
                                           They set upon Banquo.
  BANQUO. O, treachery! Fly, good Fleance, fly, fly, fly!
    Thou mayst revenge. O slave!          Dies. Fleance escapes.
  THIRD MURTHERER. Who did strike out the light?
  FIRST MURTHERER. Wast not the way?
  THIRD MURTHERER. There's but one down; the son is fled.
  SECOND MURTHERER. We have lost
    Best half of our affair.
  FIRST MURTHERER. Well, let's away and say how much is done.
                                                         Exeunt.




SCENE IV.
A Hall in the palace. A banquet prepared.

Enter Macbeth, Lady Macbeth, Ross, Lennox, Lords, and Attendants.

  MACBETH. You know your own degrees; sit down. At first
    And last the hearty welcome.
  LORDS. Thanks to your Majesty.
  MACBETH. Ourself will mingle with society
    And play the humble host.
    Our hostess keeps her state, but in best time
    We will require her welcome.
  LADY MACBETH. Pronounce it for me, sir, to all our friends,
    For my heart speaks they are welcome.

                Enter first Murtherer to the door.

  MACBETH. See, they encounter thee with their hearts' thanks.
    Both sides are even; here I'll sit i' the midst.
    Be large in mirth; anon we'll drink a measure
    The table round. [Approaches the door.] There's blood upon
thy 
      face.
  MURTHERER. 'Tis Banquo's then.
  MACBETH. 'Tis better thee without than he within.
    Is he dispatch'd?
  MURTHERER. My lord, his throat is cut; that I did for him.
  MACBETH. Thou art the best o' the cut-throats! Yet he's good
    That did the like for Fleance. If thou didst it,
    Thou art the nonpareil.
  MURTHERER. Most royal sir,
    Fleance is 'scaped.
  MACBETH. [Aside.] Then comes my fit again. I had else been
perfect,
    Whole as the marble, founded as the rock,
    As broad and general as the casing air;
    But now I am cabin'd, cribb'd, confin'd, bound in
    To saucy doubts and fears -But Banquo's safe?
  MURTHERER. Ay, my good lord. Safe in a ditch he bides,
    With twenty trenched gashes on his head,
    The least a death to nature.
  MACBETH. Thanks for that.
    There the grown serpent lies; the worm that's fled 
    Hath nature that in time will venom breed,
    No teeth for the present. Get thee gone. Tomorrow
    We'll hear ourselves again.
                                                 Exit Murtherer.
  LADY MACBETH. My royal lord,
    You do not give the cheer. The feast is sold
    That is not often vouch'd, while 'tis amaking,
    'Tis given with welcome. To feed were best at home;
    From thence the sauce to meat is ceremony;
    Meeting were bare without it.
  MACBETH. Sweet remembrancer!
    Now good digestion wait on appetite,
    And health on both!
  LENNOX. May't please your Highness sit.

      The Ghost of Banquo enters and sits in Macbeth's place.

  MACBETH. Here had we now our country's honor roof'd,
    Were the graced person of our Banquo present,
    Who may I rather challenge for unkindness 
    Than pity for mischance!
  ROSS. His absence, sir,
    Lays blame upon his promise. Please't your Highness
    To grace us with your royal company?
  MACBETH. The table's full.
  LENNOX. Here is a place reserved, sir.
  MACBETH. Where?
  LENNOX. Here, my good lord. What is't that moves your Highness?
  MACBETH. Which of you have done this?
  LORDS. What, my good lord?
  MACBETH. Thou canst not say I did it; never shake
    Thy gory locks at me.
  ROSS. Gentlemen, rise; his Highness is well.
  LADY MACBETH. Sit, worthy friends; my lord is often thus,
    And hath been from his youth. Pray you, keep seat.
    The fit is momentary; upon a thought
    He will again be well. If much you note him,
    You shall offend him and extend his passion.
    Feed, and regard him not-Are you a man?
  MACBETH. Ay, and a bold one, that dare look on that 
    Which might appal the devil.
  LADY MACBETH. O proper stuff!
    This is the very painting of your fear;
    This is the air-drawn dagger which you said
    Led you to Duncan. O, these flaws and starts,
    Impostors to true fear, would well become
    A woman's story at a winter's fire,
    Authorized by her grandam. Shame itself!
    Why do you make such faces? When all's done,
    You look but on a stool.
  MACBETH. Prithee, see there! Behold! Look! Lo! How say you?
    Why, what care I? If thou canst nod, speak too.
    If charnel houses and our graves must send
    Those that we bury back, our monuments
    Shall be the maws of kites.                      Exit Ghost.
  LADY MACBETH. What, quite unmann'd in folly?
  MACBETH. If I stand here, I saw him.
  LADY MACBETH. Fie, for shame!
  MACBETH. Blood hath been shed ere now, i' the olden time,
    Ere humane statute purged the gentle weal; 
    Ay, and since too, murthers have been perform'd
    Too terrible for the ear. The time has been,
    That, when the brains were out, the man would die,
    And there an end; but now they rise again,
    With twenty mortal murthers on their crowns,
    And push us from our stools. This is more strange
    Than such a murther is.
  LADY MACBETH. My worthy lord,
    Your noble friends do lack you.
  MACBETH. I do forget.
    Do not muse at me, my most worthy friends.
    I have a strange infirmity, which is nothing
    To those that know me. Come, love and health to all;
    Then I'll sit down. Give me some wine, fill full.
    I drink to the general joy o' the whole table,
    And to our dear friend Banquo, whom we miss.
    Would he were here! To all and him we thirst,
    And all to all.
  LORDS. Our duties and the pledge.
 
                     Re-enter Ghost.

  MACBETH. Avaunt, and quit my sight! Let the earth hide thee!
    Thy bones are marrowless, thy blood is cold;
    Thou hast no speculation in those eyes
    Which thou dost glare with.
  LADY MACBETH. Think of this, good peers,
    But as a thing of custom. 'Tis no other,
    Only it spoils the pleasure of the time.
  MACBETH. What man dare, I dare.
    Approach thou like the rugged Russian bear,
    The arm'd rhinoceros, or the Hyrcan tiger;
    Take any shape but that, and my firm nerves
    Shall never tremble. Or be alive again,
    And dare me to the desert with thy sword.
    If trembling I inhabit then, protest me
    The baby of a girl. Hence, horrible shadow!
    Unreal mockery, hence!                           Exit Ghost.
    Why, so, being gone,
    I am a man again. Pray you sit still. 
  LADY MACBETH. You have displaced the mirth, broke the good
meeting,
    With most admired disorder.
  MACBETH. Can such things be,
    And overcome us like a summer's cloud,
    Without our special wonder? You make me strange
    Even to the disposition that I owe
    When now I think you can behold such sights
    And keep the natural ruby of your cheeks
    When mine is blanch'd with fear.
  ROSS. What sights, my lord?
  LADY MACBETH. I pray you, speak not; he grows worse and worse;
    Question enrages him. At once, good night.
    Stand not upon the order of your going,
    But go at once.
  LENNOX. Good night, and better health
    Attend his Majesty!
  LADY MACBETH. A kind good night to all!
                        Exeunt all but Macbeth and Lady Macbeth.
  MACBETH. will have blood; they say blood will have blood.
    Stones have been known to move and trees to speak; 
    Augures and understood relations have
    By maggot pies and choughs and rooks brought forth
    The secret'st man of blood. What is the night?
  LADY MACBETH. Almost at odds with morning, which is which.
  MACBETH. How say'st thou, that Macduff denies his person
    At our great bidding?
  LADY MACBETH. Did you send to him, sir?
  MACBETH. I hear it by the way, but I will send.
    There's not a one of them but in his house
    I keep a servant feed. I will tomorrow,
    And betimes I will, to the weird sisters.
    More shall they speak; for now I am bent to know,
    By the worst means, the worst. For mine own good
    All causes shall give way. I am in blood
    Stepp'd in so far that, should I wade no more,
    Returning were as tedious as go o'er.
    Strange things I have in head that will to hand,
    Which must be acted ere they may be scann'd.
  LADY MACBETH. You lack the season of all natures, sleep.
  MACBETH. Come, we'll to sleep. My strange and self-abuse 
    Is the initiate fear that wants hard use.
    We are yet but young in deed.                       Exeunt.




SCENE V.
A heath. Thunder.

Enter the three Witches, meeting Hecate.

  FIRST WITCH. Why, how now, Hecate? You look angerly.
  HECATE. Have I not reason, beldams as you are,
    Saucy and overbold? How did you dare
    To trade and traffic with Macbeth
    In riddles and affairs of death,
    And I, the mistress of your charms,
    The close contriver of all harms,
    Was never call'd to bear my part,
    Or show the glory of our art?
    And, which is worse, all you have done
    Hath been but for a wayward son,
    Spiteful and wrathful, who, as others do,
    Loves for his own ends, not for you.
    But make amends now. Get you gone,
    And at the pit of Acheron
    Meet me i' the morning. Thither he
    Will come to know his destiny. 
    Your vessels and your spells provide,
    Your charms and everything beside.
    I am for the air; this night I'll spend
    Unto a dismal and a fatal end.
    Great business must be wrought ere noon:
    Upon the corner of the moon
    There hangs a vaporous drop profound;
    I'll catch it ere it come to ground.
    And that distill'd by magic sleights
    Shall raise such artificial sprites
    As by the strength of their illusion
    Shall draw him on to his confusion.
    He shall spurn fate, scorn death, and bear
    His hopes 'bove wisdom, grace, and fear.
    And you all know security
    Is mortals' chiefest enemy.
                                        Music and a song within,
                                         "Come away, come away."
    Hark! I am call'd; my little spirit, see,
    Sits in a foggy cloud and stays for me.                Exit. 
  FIRST WITCH. Come, let's make haste; she'll soon be back again.
                                                         Exeunt.




SCENE VI.
Forres. The palace.

Enter Lennox and another Lord.

  LENNOX. My former speeches have but hit your thoughts,
    Which can interpret farther; only I say
    Thing's have been strangely borne. The gracious Duncan
    Was pitied of Macbeth; marry, he was dead.
    And the right valiant Banquo walk'd too late,
    Whom, you may say, if't please you, Fleance kill'd,
    For Fleance fled. Men must not walk too late.
    Who cannot want the thought, how monstrous
    It was for Malcolm and for Donalbain
    To kill their gracious father? Damned fact!
    How it did grieve Macbeth! Did he not straight,
    In pious rage, the two delinquents tear
    That were the slaves of drink and thralls of sleep?
    Was not that nobly done? Ay, and wisely too,
    For 'twould have anger'd any heart alive
    To hear the men deny't. So that, I say,
    He has borne all things well; and I do think 
    That, had he Duncan's sons under his key-
    As, an't please heaven, he shall not -they should find
    What 'twere to kill a father; so should Fleance.
    But, peace! For from broad words, and 'cause he fail'd
    His presence at the tyrant's feast, I hear,
    Macduff lives in disgrace. Sir, can you tell
    Where he bestows himself?
  LORD. The son of Duncan,
    From whom this tyrant holds the due of birth,
    Lives in the English court and is received
    Of the most pious Edward with such grace
    That the malevolence of fortune nothing
    Takes from his high respect. Thither Macduff
    Is gone to pray the holy King, upon his aid
    To wake Northumberland and warlike Siward;
    That by the help of these, with Him above
    To ratify the work, we may again
    Give to our tables meat, sleep to our nights,
    Free from our feasts and banquets bloody knives,
    Do faithful homage, and receive free honors- 
    All which we pine for now. And this report
    Hath so exasperate the King that he
    Prepares for some attempt of war.
  LENNOX. Sent he to Macduff?
  LORD. He did, and with an absolute "Sir, not I,"
    The cloudy messenger turns me his back,
    And hums, as who should say, "You'll rue the time
    That clogs me with this answer."
  LENNOX. And that well might
    Advise him to a caution, to hold what distance
    His wisdom can provide. Some holy angel
    Fly to the court of England and unfold
    His message ere he come, that a swift blessing
    May soon return to this our suffering country
    Under a hand accursed!
  LORD. I'll send my prayers with him.
                                                         Exeunt.




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



ACT IV. SCENE I.
A cavern. In the middle, a boiling cauldron. Thunder.

Enter the three Witches.
  FIRST WITCH. Thrice the brinded cat hath mew'd.
  SECOND WITCH. Thrice and once the hedge-pig whined.
  THIRD WITCH. Harpier cries, "'Tis time, 'tis time."
  FIRST WITCH. Round about the cauldron go;
    In the poison'd entrails throw.
    Toad, that under cold stone
    Days and nights has thirty-one
    Swelter'd venom sleeping got,
    Boil thou first i' the charmed pot.
  ALL. Double, double, toil and trouble;
    Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
  SECOND WITCH. Fillet of a fenny snake,
    In the cauldron boil and bake;
    Eye of newt and toe of frog,
    Wool of bat and tongue of dog,
    Adder's fork and blind-worm's sting,
    Lizard's leg and howlet's wing,
    For a charm of powerful trouble, 
    Like a hell-broth boil and bubble.
  ALL. Double, double, toil and trouble;
    Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
  THIRD WITCH. Scale of dragon, tooth of wolf,
    Witch's mummy, maw and gulf
    Of the ravin'd salt-sea shark,
    Root of hemlock digg'd i' the dark,
    Liver of blaspheming Jew,
    Gall of goat and slips of yew
    Sliver'd in the moon's eclipse,
    Nose of Turk and Tartar's lips,
    Finger of birth-strangled babe
    Ditch-deliver'd by a drab,
    Make the gruel thick and slab.
    Add thereto a tiger's chawdron,
    For the ingredients of our cawdron.
  ALL. Double, double, toil and trouble;
    Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
  SECOND WITCH. Cool it with a baboon's blood,
    Then the charm is firm and good. 

            Enter Hecate to the other three Witches.

  HECATE. O, well done! I commend your pains,
    And everyone shall share i' the gains.
    And now about the cauldron sing,
    Like elves and fairies in a ring,
    Enchanting all that you put in.
                              Music and a song, "Black spirits."
                                                 Hecate retires.
  SECOND WITCH. By the pricking of my thumbs,
    Something wicked this way comes.
    Open, locks,
    Whoever knocks!

                      Enter Macbeth.

  MACBETH. How now, you secret, black, and midnight hags?
    What is't you do?
  ALL. A deed without a name. 
  MACBETH. I conjure you, by that which you profess
    (Howeer you come to know it) answer me:
    Though you untie the winds and let them fight
    Against the churches, though the yesty waves
    Confound and swallow navigation up,
    Though bladed corn be lodged and trees blown down,
    Though castles topple on their warders' heads,
    Though palaces and pyramids do slope
    Their heads to their foundations, though the treasure
    Of nature's germaines tumble all together
    Even till destruction sicken, answer me
    To what I ask you.
  FIRST WITCH. Speak.
  SECOND WITCH. Demand.
  THIRD WITCH. We'll answer.
  FIRST WITCH. Say, if thou'dst rather hear it from our mouths,
    Or from our masters'?
  MACBETH. Call 'em, let me see 'em.
  FIRST WITCH. Pour in sow's blood that hath eaten
    Her nine farrow; grease that's sweaten 
    From the murtherer's gibbet throw
    Into the flame.
  ALL. Come, high or low;
    Thyself and office deftly show!

            Thunder. First Apparition: an armed Head.

  MACBETH. Tell me, thou unknown power-
  FIRST WITCH. He knows thy thought:
    Hear his speech, but say thou nought.
  FIRST APPARITION. Macbeth! Macbeth! Macbeth! Beware Macduff,
    Beware the Thane of Fife. Dismiss me. Enough.
                                                       Descends.
  MACBETH. Whate'er thou art, for thy good caution, thanks;
    Thou hast harp'd my fear aright. But one word more-
  FIRST WITCH. He will not be commanded. Here's another,
    More potent than the first.

          Thunder. Second Apparition: a bloody Child.
 
  SECOND APPARITION. Macbeth! Macbeth! Macbeth!
  MACBETH. Had I three ears, I'd hear thee.
  SECOND APPARITION. Be bloody, bold, and resolute: laugh to
scorn
    The power of man, for none of woman born
    Shall harm Macbeth.                                Descends.
  MACBETH. Then live, Macduff. What need I fear of thee?
    But yet I'll make assurance double sure,
    And take a bond of fate: thou shalt not live,
    That I may tell pale-hearted fear it lies,
    And sleep in spite of thunder.

       Thunder. Third Apparition: a Child crowned,
               with a tree in his hand.

    What is this,
    That rises like the issue of a king,
    And wears upon his baby brow the round
    And top of sovereignty?
  ALL. Listen, but speak not to't.
  THIRD APPARITION. Be lion-mettled, proud, and take no care 
    Who chafes, who frets, or where conspirers are.
    Macbeth shall never vanquish'd be until
    Great Birnam Wood to high Dunsinane Hill
    Shall come against him.                            Descends.
  MACBETH. That will never be.
    Who can impress the forest, bid the tree
    Unfix his earth-bound root? Sweet bodements, good!
    Rebellion's head, rise never till the Wood
    Of Birnam rise, and our high-placed Macbeth
    Shall live the lease of nature, pay his breath
    To time and mortal custom. Yet my heart
    Throbs to know one thing: tell me, if your art
    Can tell so much, shall Banquo's issue ever
    Reign in this kingdom?
  ALL. Seek to know no more.
  MACBETH. I will be satisfied! Deny me this,
    And an eternal curse fall on you! Let me know.
    Why sinks that cauldron, and what noise is this?
                                                       Hautboys.
  FIRST WITCH. Show! 
  SECOND WITCH. Show!
  THIRD. WITCH. Show!
  ALL. Show his eyes, and grieve his heart;
    Come like shadows, so depart!

    A show of eight Kings, the last with a glass in his hand;
                   Banquo's Ghost following.

  MACBETH. Thou are too like the spirit of Banquo Down!
    Thy crown does sear mine eyeballs. And thy hair,
    Thou other gold-bound brow, is like the first.
    A third is like the former. Filthy hags!
    Why do you show me this? A fourth! Start, eyes!
    What, will the line stretch out to the crack of doom?
    Another yet! A seventh! I'll see no more!
    And yet the eighth appears, who bears a glass
    Which shows me many more; and some I see
    That twofold balls and treble sceptres carry.
    Horrible sight! Now I see 'tis true;
    For the blood-bolter'd Banquo smiles upon me, 
    And points at them for his. What, is this so?
  FIRST WITCH. Ay, sir, all this is so. But why
    Stands Macbeth thus amazedly?
    Come,sisters, cheer we up his sprites,
    And show the best of our delights.
    I'll charm the air to give a sound,
    While you perform your antic round,
    That this great King may kindly say
    Our duties did his welcome pay.
                                    Music. The Witches dance and
                                        then vanish with Hecate.
  MACBETH. are they? Gone? Let this pernicious hour
    Stand ay accursed in the calendar!
    Come in, without there!

                    Enter Lennox.

  LENNOX. What's your Grace's will?
  MACBETH. Saw you the weird sisters?
  LENNOX. No, my lord. 
  MACBETH. Came they not by you?
  LENNOX. No indeed, my lord.
  MACBETH. Infected be the 'air whereon they ride,
    And damn'd all those that trust them! I did hear
    The galloping of horse. Who wast came by?
  LENNOX. 'Tis two or three, my lord, that bring you word
    Macduff is fled to England.
  MACBETH. Fled to England?
  LENNOX. Ay, my good lord.
  MACBETH. [Aside.] Time, thou anticipatest my dread exploits.
    The flighty purpose never is o'ertook
    Unless the deed go with it. From this moment
    The very firstlings of my heart shall be
    The firstlings of my hand. And even now,
    To crown my thoughts with acts, be it thought and done:
    The castle of Macduff I will surprise,
    Seize upon Fife, give to the edge o' the sword
    His wife, his babes, and all unfortunate souls
    That trace him in his line. No boasting like a fool;
    This deed I'll do before this purpose cool. 
    But no more sights! -Where are these gentlemen?
    Come, bring me where they are.                       Exeunt.




SCENE II.
Fife. Macduff's castle.

Enter Lady Macduff, her Son, and Ross.

  LADY MACDUFF. What had he done, to make him fly the land?
  ROSS. You must have patience, madam.
  LADY MACDUFF. He had none;
    His flight was madness. When our actions do not,
    Our fears do make us traitors.
  ROSS. You know not
    Whether it was his wisdom or his fear.
  LADY MACDUFF. Wisdom? To leave his wife, to leave his babes,
    His mansion, and his titles, in a place
    From whence himself does fly? He loves us not;
    He wants the natural touch; for the poor wren,
    The most diminutive of birds, will fight,
    Her young ones in her nest, against the owl.
    All is the fear and nothing is the love;
    As little is the wisdom, where the flight
    So runs against all reason.
  ROSS. My dearest coz, 
    I pray you, school yourself. But for your husband,
    He is noble, wise, Judicious, and best knows
    The fits o' the season. I dare not speak much further;
    But cruel are the times when we are traitors
    And do not know ourselves; when we hold rumor
    From what we fear, yet know not what we fear,
    But float upon a wild and violent sea
    Each way and move. I take my leave of you;
    Shall not be long but I'll be here again.
    Things at the worst will cease or else climb upward
    To what they were before. My pretty cousin,
    Blessing upon you!
  LADY MACDUFF. Father'd he is, and yet he's fatherless.
  ROSS. I am so much a fool, should I stay longer,
    It would be my disgrace and your discomfort.
    I take my leave at once.                               Exit.
  LADY MACDUFF. Sirrah, your father's dead.
    And what will you do now? How will you live?
  SON. As birds do, Mother.
  LADY MACDUFF. What, with worms and flies? 
  SON. With what I get, I mean; and so do they.
  LADY MACDUFF. Poor bird! Thou'ldst never fear the net nor lime,
    The pitfall nor the gin.
  SON. Why should I, Mother? Poor birds they are not set for.
    My father is not dead, for all your saying.
  LADY MACDUFF. Yes, he is dead. How wilt thou do for father?
  SON. Nay, how will you do for a husband?
  LADY MACDUFF. Why, I can buy me twenty at any market.
  SON. Then you'll buy 'em to sell again.
  LADY MACDUFF. Thou speak'st with all thy wit, and yet, i'
faith,
    With wit enough for thee.
  SON. Was my father a traitor, Mother?
  LADY MACDUFF. Ay, that he was.
  SON. What is a traitor?
  LADY MACDUFF. Why one that swears and lies.
  SON. And be all traitors that do so?
  LADY MACDUFF. Everyone that does so is a traitor and must be
     hanged.
  SON. And must they all be hanged that swear and lie?
  LADY MACDUFF. Everyone. 
  SON. Who must hang them?
  LADY MACDUFF. Why, the honest men.
  SON. Then the liars and swearers are fools, for there are liars
and
    swearers enow to beat the honest men and hang up them.
  LADY MACDUFF. Now, God help thee, poor monkey! But how wilt
thou do
    for a father?
  SON. If he were dead, you'ld weep for him; if you would not, it
    were a good sign that I should quickly have a new father.
  LADY MACDUFF. Poor prattler, how thou talk'st!

                    Enter a Messenger.

  MESSENGER. Bless you, fair dame! I am not to you known,
    Though in your state of honor I am perfect.
    I doubt some danger does approach you nearly.
    If you will take a homely man's advice,
    Be not found here; hence, with your little ones.
    To fright you thus, methinks I am too savage;
    To do worse to you were fell cruelty,
    Which is too nigh your person. Heaven preserve you! 
    I dare abide no longer.                                Exit.
  LADY MACDUFF. Whither should I fly?
    I have done no harm. But I remember now
    I am in this earthly world, where to do harm
    Is often laudable, to do good sometime
    Accounted dangerous folly. Why then, alas,
    Do I put up that womanly defense,
    To say I have done no harm -What are these faces?

                      Enter Murtherers.

  FIRST MURTHERER. Where is your husband?
  LADY MACDUFF. I hope, in no place so unsanctified
    Where such as thou mayst find him.
  FIRST MURTHERER. He's a traitor.
  SON. Thou liest, thou shag-ear'd villain!
  FIRST MURTHERER. What, you egg!
                                                      Stabs him.
    Young fry of treachery!
  SON. He has kill'd me, Mother. 
    Run away, I pray you!                                  Dies.
                            Exit Lady Macduff, crying "Murther!"
                               Exeunt Murtherers, following her.




SCENE III.
England. Before the King's palace.

Enter Malcolm and Macduff.

  MALCOLM. Let us seek out some desolate shade and there
    Weep our sad bosoms empty.
  MACDUFF. Let us rather
    Hold fast the mortal sword, and like good men
    Bestride our downfall'n birthdom. Each new morn
    New widows howl, new orphans cry, new sorrows
    Strike heaven on the face, that it resounds
    As if it felt with Scotland and yell'd out
    Like syllable of dolor.
  MALCOLM. What I believe, I'll wall;
    What know, believe; and what I can redress,
    As I shall find the time to friend, I will.
    What you have spoke, it may be so perchance.
    This tyrant, whose sole name blisters our tongues,
    Was once thought honest. You have loved him well;
    He hath not touch'd you yet. I am young, but something
    You may deserve of him through me, and wisdom 
    To offer up a weak, poor, innocent lamb
    To appease an angry god.
  MACDUFF. I am not treacherous.
  MALCOLM. But Macbeth is.
    A good and virtuous nature may recoil
    In an imperial charge. But I shall crave your pardon;
    That which you are, my thoughts cannot transpose.
    Angels are bright still, though the brightest fell.
    Though all things foul would wear the brows of grace,
    Yet grace must still look so.
  MACDUFF. I have lost my hopes.
  MALCOLM. Perchance even there where I did find my doubts.
    Why in that rawness left you wife and child,
    Those precious motives, those strong knots of love,
    Without leave-taking? I pray you,
    Let not my jealousies be your dishonors,
    But mine own safeties. You may be rightly just,
    Whatever I shall think.
  MACDUFF. Bleed, bleed, poor country!
    Great tyranny, lay thou thy basis sure, 
    For goodness dare not check thee. Wear thou thy wrongs;
    The title is affeer'd. Fare thee well, lord.
    I would not be the villain that thou think'st
    For the whole space that's in the tyrant's grasp
    And the rich East to boot.
  MALCOLM. Be not offended;
    I speak not as in absolute fear of you.
    I think our country sinks beneath the yoke;
    It weeps, it bleeds, and each new day a gash
    Is added to her wounds. I think withal
    There would be hands uplifted in my right;
    And here from gracious England have I offer
    Of goodly thousands. But for all this,
    When I shall tread upon the tyrant's head,
    Or wear it on my sword, yet my poor country
    Shall have more vices than it had before,
    More suffer and more sundry ways than ever,
    By him that shall succeed.
  MACDUFF. What should he be?
  MALCOLM. It is myself I mean, in whom I know 
    All the particulars of vice so grafted
    That, when they shall be open'd, black Macbeth
    Will seem as pure as snow, and the poor state
    Esteem him as a lamb, being compared
    With my confineless harms.
  MACDUFF. Not in the legions
    Of horrid hell can come a devil more damn'd
    In evils to top Macbeth.
  MALCOLM. I grant him bloody,
    Luxurious, avaricious, false, deceitful,
    Sudden, malicious, smacking of every sin
    That has a name. But there's no bottom, none,
    In my voluptuousness. Your wives, your daughters,
    Your matrons, and your maids could not fill up
    The cestern of my lust, and my desire
    All continent impediments would o'erbear
    That did oppose my will. Better Macbeth
    Than such an one to reign.
  MACDUFF. Boundless intemperance
    In nature is a tyranny; it hath been 
    The untimely emptying of the happy throne,
    And fall of many kings. But fear not yet
    To take upon you what is yours. You may
    Convey your pleasures in a spacious plenty
    And yet seem cold, the time you may so hoodwink.
    We have willing dames enough; there cannot be
    That vulture in you to devour so many
    As will to greatness dedicate themselves,
    Finding it so inclined.
  MALCOLM. With this there grows
    In my most ill-composed affection such
    A stanchless avarice that, were I King,
    I should cut off the nobles for their lands,
    Desire his jewels and this other's house,
    And my more-having would be as a sauce
    To make me hunger more, that I should forge
    Quarrels unjust against the good and loyal,
    Destroying them for wealth.
  MACDUFF. This avarice
    Sticks deeper, grows with more pernicious root 
    Than summer-seeming lust, and it hath been
    The sword of our slain kings. Yet do not fear;
    Scotland hath foisons to fill up your will
    Of your mere own. All these are portable,
    With other graces weigh'd.
  MALCOLM. But I have none. The king-becoming graces,
    As justice, verity, temperance, stableness,
    Bounty, perseverance, mercy, lowliness,
    Devotion, patience, courage, fortitude,
    I have no relish of them, but abound
    In the division of each several crime,
    Acting it many ways. Nay, had I power, I should
    Pour the sweet milk of concord into hell,
    Uproar the universal peace, confound
    All unity on earth.
  MACDUFF. O Scotland, Scotland!
  MALCOLM. If such a one be fit to govern, speak.
    I am as I have spoken.
  MACDUFF. Fit to govern?
    No, not to live. O nation miserable! 
    With an untitled tyrant bloody-scepter'd,
    When shalt thou see thy wholesome days again,
    Since that the truest issue of thy throne
    By his own interdiction stands accursed
    And does blaspheme his breed? Thy royal father
    Was a most sainted king; the queen that bore thee,
    Oftener upon her knees than on her feet,
    Died every day she lived. Fare thee well!
    These evils thou repeat'st upon thyself
    Have banish'd me from Scotland. O my breast,
    Thy hope ends here!
  MALCOLM. Macduff, this noble passion,
    Child of integrity, hath from my soul
    Wiped the black scruples, reconciled my thoughts
    To thy good truth and honor. Devilish Macbeth
    By many of these trains hath sought to win me
    Into his power, and modest wisdom plucks me
    From over-credulous haste. But God above
    Deal between thee and me! For even now
    I put myself to thy direction and 
    Unspeak mine own detraction; here abjure
    The taints and blames I laid upon myself,
    For strangers to my nature. I am yet
    Unknown to woman, never was forsworn,
    Scarcely have coveted what was mine own,
    At no time broke my faith, would not betray
    The devil to his fellow, and delight
    No less in truth than life. My first false speaking
    Was this upon myself. What I am truly
    Is thine and my poor country's to command.
    Whither indeed, before thy here-approach,
    Old Siward, with ten thousand warlike men
    Already at a point, was setting forth.
    Now we'll together, and the chance of goodness
    Be like our warranted quarrel! Why are you silent?
  MACDUFF. Such welcome and unwelcome things at once
    'Tis hard to reconcile.

                     Enter a Doctor.
 
  MALCOLM. Well, more anon. Comes the King forth, I pray you?
  DOCTOR. Ay, sir, there are a crew of wretched souls
    That stay his cure. Their malady convinces
    The great assay of art, but at his touch,
    Such sanctity hath heaven given his hand,
    They presently amend.
  MALCOLM. I thank you, Doctor.                     Exit Doctor.
  MACDUFF. What's the disease he means?
  MALCOLM. 'Tis call'd the evil:
    A most miraculous work in this good King,
    Which often, since my here-remain in England,
    I have seen him do. How he solicits heaven,
    Himself best knows; but strangely-visited people,
    All swol'n and ulcerous, pitiful to the eye,
    The mere despair of surgery, he cures,
    Hanging a golden stamp about their necks
    Put on with holy prayers; and 'tis spoken,
    To the succeeding royalty he leaves
    The healing benediction. With this strange virtue
    He hath a heavenly gift of prophecy, 
    And sundry blessings hang about his throne
    That speak him full of grace.

                    Enter Ross.

  MACDUFF. See, who comes here?
  MALCOLM. My countryman, but yet I know him not.
  MACDUFF. My ever gentle cousin, welcome hither.
  MALCOLM. I know him now. Good God, betimes remove
    The means that makes us strangers!
  ROSS. Sir, amen.
  MACDUFF. Stands Scotland where it did?
  ROSS. Alas, poor country,
    Almost afraid to know itself! It cannot
    Be call'd our mother, but our grave. Where nothing,
    But who knows nothing, is once seen to smile;
    Where sighs and groans and shrieks that rend the air,
    Are made, not mark'd; where violent sorrow seems
    A modern ecstasy. The dead man's knell
    Is there scarce ask'd for who, and good men's lives 
    Expire before the flowers in their caps,
    Dying or ere they sicken.
  MACDUFF. O, relation
    Too nice, and yet too true!
  MALCOLM. What's the newest grief?
  ROSS. That of an hour's age doth hiss the speaker;
    Each minute teems a new one.
  MACDUFF. How does my wife?
  ROSS. Why, well.
  MACDUFF. And all my children?
  ROSS. Well too.
  MACDUFF. The tyrant has not batter'd at their peace?
  ROSS. No, they were well at peace when I did leave 'em.
  MACDUFF. Be not a niggard of your speech. How goest?
  ROSS. When I came hither to transport the tidings,
    Which I have heavily borne, there ran a rumor
    Of many worthy fellows that were out,
    Which was to my belief witness'd the rather,
    For that I saw the tyrant's power afoot.
    Now is the time of help; your eye in Scotland 
    Would create soldiers, make our women fight,
    To doff their dire distresses.
  MALCOLM. Be't their comfort
    We are coming thither. Gracious England hath
    Lent us good Siward and ten thousand men;
    An older and a better soldier none
    That Christendom gives out.
  ROSS. Would I could answer
    This comfort with the like! But I have words
    That would be howl'd out in the desert air,
    Where hearing should not latch them.
  MACDUFF. What concern they?
    The general cause? Or is it a fee-grief
    Due to some single breast?
  ROSS. No mind that's honest
    But in it shares some woe, though the main part
    Pertains to you alone.
  MACDUFF. If it be mine,
    Keep it not from me, quickly let me have it.
  ROSS. Let not your ears despise my tongue forever, 
    Which shall possess them with the heaviest sound
    That ever yet they heard.
  MACDUFF. Humh! I guess at it.
  ROSS. Your castle is surprised; your wife and babes
    Savagely slaughter'd. To relate the manner
    Were, on the quarry of these murther'd deer,
    To add the death of you.
  MALCOLM. Merciful heaven!
    What, man! Neer pull your hat upon your brows;
    Give sorrow words. The grief that does not speak
    Whispers the o'erfraught heart, and bids it break.
  MACDUFF. My children too?
  ROSS. Wife, children, servants, all
    That could be found.
  MACDUFF. And I must be from thence!
    My wife kill'd too?
  ROSS. I have said.
  MALCOLM. Be comforted.
    Let's make us medicines of our great revenge,
    To cure this deadly grief. 
  MACDUFF. He has no children. All my pretty ones?
    Did you say all? O hell-kite! All?
    What, all my pretty chickens and their dam
    At one fell swoop?
  MALCOLM. Dispute it like a man.
  MACDUFF. I shall do so,
    But I must also feel it as a man.
    I cannot but remember such things were
    That were most precious to me. Did heaven look on,
    And would not take their part? Sinful Macduff,
    They were all struck for thee! Naught that I am,
    Not for their own demerits, but for mine,
    Fell slaughter on their souls. Heaven rest them now!
  MALCOLM. Be this the whetstone of your sword. Let grief
    Convert to anger; blunt not the heart, enrage it.
  MACDUFF. O, I could play the woman with mine eyes
    And braggart with my tongue! But, gentle heavens,
    Cut short all intermission; front to front
    Bring thou this fiend of Scotland and myself;
    Within my sword's length set him; if he 'scape, 
    Heaven forgive him too!
  MALCOLM. This tune goes manly.
    Come, go we to the King; our power is ready,
    Our lack is nothing but our leave. Macbeth
    Is ripe for shaking, and the powers above
    Put on their instruments. Receive what cheer you may,
    The night is long that never finds the day.          Exeunt.




<<THIS ELECTRONIC VERSION OF THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM
SHAKESPEARE IS COPYRIGHT 1990-1993 BY WORLD LIBRARY, INC., AND IS
PROVIDED BY PROJECT GUTENBERG ETEXT OF CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
WITH PERMISSION.  ELECTRONIC AND MACHINE READABLE COPIES MAY BE
DISTRIBUTED SO LONG AS SUCH COPIES (1) ARE FOR YOUR OR OTHERS
PERSONAL USE ONLY, AND (2) ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED OR USED
COMMERCIALLY.  PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION INCLUDES BY ANY
SERVICE THAT CHARGES FOR DOWNLOAD TIME OR FOR MEMBERSHIP.>>



ACT V. SCENE I.
Dunsinane. Anteroom in the castle.

Enter a Doctor of Physic and a Waiting Gentlewoman.

  DOCTOR. I have two nights watched with you, but can perceive no
    truth in your report. When was it she last walked?
  GENTLEWOMAN. Since his Majesty went into the field, have seen
her
    rise from her bed, throw her nightgown upon her, unlock her
    closet, take forth paper, fold it, write upon't, read it,
    afterwards seal it, and again return to bed; yet all this
while
    in a most fast sleep.
  DOCTOR. A great perturbation in nature, to receive at once the
    benefit of sleep and do the effects of watching! In this
slumbery
    agitation, besides her walking and other actual performances,
    what, at any time, have you heard her say?
  GENTLEWOMAN. That, sir, which I will not report after her.
  DOCTOR. You may to me, and 'tis most meet you should.
  GENTLEWOMAN. Neither to you nor anyone, having no witness to
    confirm my speech.

                Enter Lady Macbeth with a taper. 

    Lo you, here she comes! This is her very guise, and, upon my
    life, fast asleep. Observe her; stand close.
  DOCTOR. How came she by that light?
  GENTLEWOMAN. Why, it stood by her. She has light by her
     continually; 'tis her command.
  DOCTOR. You see, her eyes are open.
  GENTLEWOMAN. Ay, but their sense is shut.
  DOCTOR. What is it she does now? Look how she rubs her hands.
  GENTLEWOMAN. It is an accustomed action with her, to seem thus
    washing her hands. I have known her continue in this a
quarter of
    an hour.
  LADY MACBETH. Yet here's a spot.
  DOCTOR. Hark, she speaks! I will set down what comes from her,
to
    satisfy my remembrance the more strongly.
  LADY MACBETH. Out, damned spot! Out, I say! One- two -why then
'tis
    time to do't. Hell is murky. Fie, my lord, fie! A soldier,
and
    afeard? What need we fear who knows it, when none can call
our
    power to account? Yet who would have thought the old man to
have
    had so much blood in him? 
  DOCTOR. Do you mark that?
  LADY MACBETH. The Thane of Fife had a wife; where is she now?
What,
    will these hands neer be clean? No more o' that, my lord, no
more
    o' that. You mar all with this starting.
  DOCTOR. Go to, go to; you have known what you should not.
  GENTLEWOMAN. She has spoke what she should not, I am sure of
that.
    Heaven knows what she has known.
  LADY MACBETH. Here's the smell of the blood still. All the
perfumes
    of Arabia will not sweeten this little hand. Oh, oh, oh!
  DOCTOR. What a sigh is there! The heart is sorely charged.
  GENTLEWOMAN. I would not have such a heart in my bosom for the
    dignity of the whole body.
  DOCTOR. Well, well, well-
  GENTLEWOMAN. Pray God it be, sir.
  DOCTOR. This disease is beyond my practice. Yet I have known
those
    which have walked in their sleep who have died holily in
their
    beds.
  LADY MACBETH. Wash your hands, put on your nightgown, look not
so
    pale. I tell you yet again, Banquo's buried; he cannot come
out
    on's grave. 
  DOCTOR. Even so?
  LADY MACBETH. To bed, to bed; there's knocking at the gate.
Come,
    come, come, come, give me your hand.What's done cannot be
undone.
    To bed, to bed, to bed.
Exit.
  DOCTOR. Will she go now to bed?
  GENTLEWOMAN. Directly.
  DOCTOR. Foul whisperings are abroad. Unnatural deeds
    Do breed unnatural troubles; infected minds
    To their deaf pillows will discharge their secrets.
    More needs she the divine than the physician.
    God, God, forgive us all! Look after her;
    Remove from her the means of all annoyance,
    And still keep eyes upon her. So good night.
    My mind she has mated and amazed my sight.
    I think, but dare not speak.
  GENTLEWOMAN. Good night, good doctor.
                                                         Exeunt.




SCENE II.
The country near Dunsinane. Drum and colors.

Enter Menteith, Caithness, Angus, Lennox, and Soldiers.

  MENTEITH. The English power is near, led on by Malcolm,
    His uncle Siward, and the good Macduff.
    Revenges burn in them, for their dear causes
    Would to the bleeding and the grim alarm
    Excite the mortified man.
  ANGUS. Near Birnam Wood
    Shall we well meet them; that way are they coming.
  CAITHNESS. Who knows if Donalbain be with his brother?
  LENNOX. For certain, sir, he is not; I have a file
    Of all the gentry. There is Seward's son
    And many unrough youths that even now
    Protest their first of manhood.
  MENTEITH. What does the tyrant?
  CAITHNESS. Great Dunsinane he strongly fortifies.
    Some say he's mad; others, that lesser hate him,
    Do call it valiant fury; but, for certain,
    He cannot buckle his distemper'd cause 
    Within the belt of rule.
  ANGUS. Now does he feel
    His secret murthers sticking on his hands,
    Now minutely revolts upbraid his faith-breach;
    Those he commands move only in command,
    Nothing in love. Now does he feel his title
    Hang loose about him, like a giant's robe
    Upon a dwarfish thief.
  MENTEITH. Who then shall blame
    His pester'd senses to recoil and start,
    When all that is within him does condemn
    Itself for being there?
  CAITHNESS. Well, march we on
    To give obedience where 'tis truly owed.
    Meet we the medicine of the sickly weal,
    And with him pour we, in our country's purge,
    Each drop of us.
  LENNOX. Or so much as it needs
    To dew the sovereign flower and drown the weeds.
    Make we our march towards Birnam.           Exeunt marching.




SCENE III.
Dunsinane. A room in the castle.

Enter Macbeth, Doctor, and Attendants.

  MACBETH. Bring me no more reports; let them fly all!
    Till Birnam Wood remove to Dunsinane
    I cannot taint with fear. What's the boy Malcolm?
    Was he not born of woman? The spirits that know
    All mortal consequences have pronounced me thus:
    "Fear not, Macbeth; no man that's born of woman
    Shall e'er have power upon thee." Then fly, false Thanes,
    And mingle with the English epicures!
    The mind I sway by and the heart I bear
    Shall never sag with doubt nor shake with fear.

                       Enter a Servant.

    The devil damn thee black, thou cream-faced loon!
    Where got'st thou that goose look?
  SERVANT. There is ten thousand-
  MACBETH. Geese, villain? 
  SERVANT. Soldiers, sir.
  MACBETH. Go prick thy face and over-red thy fear,
    Thou lily-liver'd boy. What soldiers, patch?
    Death of thy soul! Those linen cheeks of thine
    Are counselors to fear. What soldiers, whey-face?
  SERVANT. The English force, so please you.
  MACBETH. Take thy face hence.                    Exit Servant.
    Seyton-I am sick at heart,
    When I behold- Seyton, I say!- This push
    Will cheer me ever or disseat me now.
    I have lived long enough. My way of life
    Is fall'n into the sear, the yellow leaf,
    And that which should accompany old age,
    As honor, love, obedience, troops of friends,
    I must not look to have; but in their stead,
    Curses, not loud but deep, mouth-honor, breath,
    Which the poor heart would fain deny and dare not.
    Seyton!

                       Enter Seyton. 

  SEYTON. What's your gracious pleasure?
  MACBETH. What news more?
  SEYTON. All is confirm'd, my lord, which was reported.
  MACBETH. I'll fight, 'til from my bones my flesh be hack'd.
    Give me my armor.
  SEYTON. 'Tis not needed yet.
  MACBETH. I'll put it on.
    Send out more horses, skirr the country round,
    Hang those that talk of fear. Give me mine armor.
    How does your patient, doctor?
  DOCTOR. Not so sick, my lord,
    As she is troubled with thick-coming fancies,
    That keep her from her rest.
  MACBETH. Cure her of that.
    Canst thou not minister to a mind diseased,
    Pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow,
    Raze out the written troubles of the brain,
    And with some sweet oblivious antidote
    Cleanse the stuff'd bosom of that perilous stuff 
    Which weighs upon the heart?
  DOCTOR. Therein the patient
    Must minister to himself.
  MACBETH. Throw physic to the dogs, I'll none of it.
    Come, put mine armor on; give me my staff.
    Seyton, send out. Doctor, the Thanes fly from me.
    Come, sir, dispatch. If thou couldst, doctor, cast
    The water of my land, find her disease
    And purge it to a sound and pristine health,
    I would applaud thee to the very echo,
    That should applaud again. Pull't off, I say.
    What rhubarb, cyme, or what purgative drug
    Would scour these English hence? Hearst thou of them?
  DOCTOR. Ay, my good lord, your royal preparation
    Makes us hear something.
  MACBETH. Bring it after me.
    I will not be afraid of death and bane
    Till Birnam Forest come to Dunsinane.
  DOCTOR. [Aside.] Were I from Dunsinane away and clear,
    Profit again should hardly draw me here.             Exeunt.




SCENE IV.
Country near Birnam Wood. Drum and colors.

Enter Malcolm, old Seward and his Son, Macduff, Menteith,
Caithness,
Angus, Lennox, Ross, and Soldiers, marching.

  MALCOLM. Cousins, I hope the days are near at hand
    That chambers will be safe.
  MENTEITH. We doubt it nothing.
  SIWARD. What wood is this before us?
  MENTEITH. The Wood of Birnam.
  MALCOLM. Let every soldier hew him down a bough,
    And bear't before him; thereby shall we shadow
    The numbers of our host, and make discovery
    Err in report of us.
  SOLDIERS. It shall be done.
  SIWARD. We learn no other but the confident tyrant
    Keeps still in Dunsinane and will endure
    Our setting down before't.
  MALCOLM. 'Tis his main hope;
    For where there is advantage to be given,
    Both more and less have given him the revolt, 
    And none serve with him but constrained things
    Whose hearts are absent too.
  MACDUFF. Let our just censures
    Attend the true event, and put we on
    Industrious soldiership.
  SIWARD. The time approaches
    That will with due decision make us know
    What we shall say we have and what we owe.
    Thoughts speculative their unsure hopes relate,
    But certain issue strokes must arbitrate.
    Towards which advance the war.
                                                Exeunt Marching.




SCENE V.
Dunsinane. Within the castle.

Enter Macbeth, Seyton, and Soldiers, with drum and colors.

  MACBETH. Hang out our banners on the outward walls;
    The cry is still, "They come!" Our castle's strength
    Will laugh a siege to scorn. Here let them lie
    Till famine and the ague eat them up.
    Were they not forced with those that should be ours,
    We might have met them dareful, beard to beard,
    And beat them backward home.
                                          A cry of women within.
    What is that noise?
  SEYTON. It is the cry of women, my good lord.            Exit.
  MACBETH. I have almost forgot the taste of fears:
    The time has been, my senses would have cool'd
    To hear a night-shriek, and my fell of hair
    Would at a dismal treatise rouse and stir
    As life were in't. I have supp'd full with horrors;
    Direness, familiar to my slaughterous thoughts,
    Cannot once start me. 

                  Re-enter Seyton.
     Wherefore was that cry?
  SEYTON. The Queen, my lord, is dead.
  MACBETH. She should have died hereafter;
    There would have been a time for such a word.
    Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow
    Creeps in this petty pace from day to day
    To the last syllable of recorded time;
    And all our yesterdays have lighted fools
    The way to dusty death. Out, out, brief candle!
    Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player
    That struts and frets his hour upon the stage
    And then is heard no more. It is a tale
    Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury,
    Signifying nothing.

                 Enter a Messenger.

    Thou comest to use thy tongue; thy story quickly. 
  MESSENGER. Gracious my lord,
    I should report that which I say I saw,
    But know not how to do it.
  MACBETH. Well, say, sir.
  MESSENGER. As I did stand my watch upon the hill,
    I look'd toward Birnam, and anon, methought,
    The Wood began to move.
  MACBETH. Liar and slave!
  MESSENGER. Let me endure your wrath, if't be not so.
    Within this three mile may you see it coming;
    I say, a moving grove.
  MACBETH. If thou speak'st false,
    Upon the next tree shalt thou hang alive,
    Till famine cling thee; if thy speech be sooth,
    I care not if thou dost for me as much.
    I pull in resolution and begin
    To doubt the equivocation of the fiend
    That lies like truth. "Fear not, till Birnam Wood
    Do come to Dunsinane," and now a wood
    Comes toward Dunsinane. Arm, arm, and out! 
    If this which he avouches does appear,
    There is nor flying hence nor tarrying here.
    I 'gin to be aweary of the sun
    And wish the estate o' the world were now undone.
    Ring the alarum bell! Blow, wind! Come, wrack!
    At least we'll die with harness on our back.         Exeunt.




SCENE VI.
Dunsinane.  Before the castle.

Enter Malcolm, old Siward, Macduff, and their Army, with boughs.
Drum and colors.

  MALCOLM. Now near enough; your leavy screens throw down,
    And show like those you are. You, worthy uncle,
    Shall with my cousin, your right noble son,
    Lead our first battle. Worthy Macduff and we
    Shall take upon 's what else remains to do,
    According to our order.
  SIWARD. Fare you well.
    Do we but find the tyrant's power tonight,
    Let us be beaten if we cannot fight.
  MACDUFF. Make all our trumpets speak, give them all breath,
    Those clamorous harbingers of blood and death.
                                                         Exeunt.




SCENE VII.
Dunsinane.  Before the castle.  Alarums.

Enter Macbeth.

  MACBETH. They have tied me to a stake; I cannot fly,
    But bear-like I must fight the course. What's he
    That was not born of woman? Such a one
    Am I to fear, or none.

                     Enter young Siward.

  YOUNG SIWARD. What is thy name?
  MACBETH. Thou'lt be afraid to hear it.
  YOUNG SIWARD. No, though thou call'st thyself a hotter name
    Than any is in hell.
  MACBETH. My name's Macbeth.
  YOUNG SIWARD. The devil himself could not pronounce a title
    More hateful to mine ear.
  MACBETH. No, nor more fearful.
  YOUNG SIWARD O Thou liest, abhorred tyrant; with my sword
    I'll prove the lie thou speak'st. 
                          They fight, and young Seward is slain.
  MACBETH. Thou wast born of woman.
    But swords I smile at, weapons laugh to scorn,
    Brandish'd by man that's of a woman born.              Exit.

                Alarums. Enter Macduff.

  MACDUFF. That way the noise is. Tyrant, show thy face!
    If thou best slain and with no stroke of mine,
    My wife and children's ghosts will haunt me still.
    I cannot strike at wretched kerns, whose arms
    Are hired to bear their staves. Either thou, Macbeth,
    Or else my sword, with an unbatter'd edge,
    I sheathe again undeeded. There thou shouldst be;
    By this great clatter, one of greatest note
    Seems bruited. Let me find him, Fortune!
    And more I beg not.                           Exit. Alarums.

                Enter Malcolm and old Siward.
 
  SIWARD. This way, my lord; the castle's gently render'd.
    The tyrant's people on both sides do fight,
    The noble Thanes do bravely in the war,
    The day almost itself professes yours,
    And little is to do.
  MALCOLM. We have met with foes
    That strike beside us.
  SIWARD. Enter, sir, the castle.
                                                 Exeunt. Alarum.




SCENE VIII.
Another part of the field.

Enter Macbeth.

  MACBETH. Why should I play the Roman fool and die
    On mine own sword? Whiles I see lives, the gashes
    Do better upon them.

                      Enter Macduff.

  MACDUFF. Turn, hell hound, turn!
  MACBETH. Of all men else I have avoided thee.
    But get thee back, my soul is too much charged
    With blood of thine already.
  MACDUFF. I have no words.
    My voice is in my sword, thou bloodier villain
    Than terms can give thee out!                    They fight.
  MACBETH. Thou losest labor.
    As easy mayst thou the intrenchant air
    With thy keen sword impress as make me bleed.
    Let fall thy blade on vulnerable crests; 
    I bear a charmed life, which must not yield
    To one of woman born.
  MACDUFF. Despair thy charm,
    And let the angel whom thou still hast served
    Tell thee, Macduff was from his mother's womb
    Untimely ripp'd.
  MACBETH. Accursed be that tongue that tells me so,
    For it hath cow'd my better part of man!
    And be these juggling fiends no more believed
    That patter with us in a double sense,
    That keep the word of promise to our ear
    And break it to our hope. I'll not fight with thee.
  MACDUFF. Then yield thee, coward,
    And live to be the show and gaze o' the time.
    We'll have thee, as our rarer monsters are,
    Painted upon a pole, and underwrit,
    "Here may you see the tyrant."
  MACBETH. I will not yield,
    To kiss the ground before young Malcolm's feet,
    And to be baited with the rabble's curse. 
    Though Birnam Wood be come to Dunsinane,
    And thou opposed, being of no woman born,
    Yet I will try the last. Before my body
    I throw my warlike shield! Lay on, Macduff,
    And damn'd be him that first cries, "Hold, enough!"
                                       Exeunt fighting. Alarums.




SCENE IX.

Retreat. Flourish. Enter, with drum and colors, Malcolm, old
Siward, Ross,
the other Thanes, and Soldiers.

  MALCOLM. I would the friends we miss were safe arrived.
  SIWARD. Some must go off, and yet, by these I see,
    So great a day as this is cheaply bought.
  MALCOLM. Macduff is missing, and your noble son.
  ROSS. Your son, my lord, has paid a soldier's debt.
    He only lived but till he was a man,
    The which no sooner had his prowess confirm'd
    In the unshrinking station where he fought,
    But like a man he died.
  SIWARD. Then he is dead?
  ROSS. Ay, and brought off the field. Your cause of sorrow
    Must not be measured by his worth, for then
    It hath no end.
  SIWARD. Had he his hurts before?
  ROSS. Ay, on the front.
  SIWARD. Why then, God's soldier be he!
    Had I as many sons as I have hairs, 
    I would not wish them to a fairer death.
    And so his knell is knoll'd.
  MALCOLM. He's worth more sorrow,
    And that I'll spend for him.
  SIWARD. He's worth no more:
    They say he parted well and paid his score,
    And so God be with him! Here comes newer comfort.

             Re-enter Macduff, with Macbeth's head.

  MACDUFF. Hail, King, for so thou art. Behold where stands
    The usurper's cursed head. The time is free.
    I see thee compass'd with thy kingdom's pearl
    That speak my salutation in their minds,
    Whose voices I desire aloud with mine-
    Hail, King of Scotland!
  ALL. Hail, King of Scotland!                         Flourish.
  MALCOLM. We shall not spend a large expense of time
    Before we reckon with your several loves
    And make us even with you. My Thanes and kinsmen, 
    Henceforth be Earls, the first that ever Scotland
    In such an honor named. What's more to do,
    Which would be planted newly with the time,
    As calling home our exiled friends abroad
    That fled the snares of watchful tyranny,
    Producing forth the cruel ministers
    Of this dead butcher and his fiend-like queen,
    Who, as 'tis thought, by self and violent hands
    Took off her life; this, and what needful else
    That calls upon us, by the grace of Grace
    We will perform in measure, time, and place.
    So thanks to all at once and to each one,
    Whom we invite to see us crown'd at Scone.
                                               Flourish. Exeunt.
                 -THE END-
